 Since pride month is upon us. I figured I join in on the self-serving worthless pondering. So I'm happy to declare that from now on that. This is an lgbtq on a plus Channel. Well. Ironically enough this video how to sponsor nordvpn virtual private network will keep you safe and secure husky pesky government, but the benefits don't end there. Movie or show you want to watch isn't available Way You Are. No one has thousands of super fall service located, all across the world, allowing you to get around, Regional restrictions and enjoy more content of shopping around to get yourself. The best deal was based on what I found it very useful, especially when watching content online with my girlfriend and maybe you'll find it useful to protect yourself online. Get better deals plus all these other benefits and support your favorite YouTube channel. What more could you want get a huge discount on a 2-year plan of plus an extra months of free by going to nordvpn.com cynical reviews and using the code. Well, cynical reviews. I mean, what else would it be possible for a risk-free 30-day, money-back guarantee. Nothing to lose by the description for a link that I'm no stranger to buy moral message movies. In fact, that one of my favorite subjects to cover on this channel. That's just something about a movie failing. It's intended message through its own incompetence extra layer of 5 nuts, on top of an already fully start stirred. And if the message itself is bad, then all the more reason not to hold back. Turn off for though. He's kind of different. It tells the story of a gay couple who want to get married and the frigidus, they suffer as a result. It's messages about the Injustice of, not allowing same-sex marriage and the consequences of homophobia. Here's the thing. I don't disagree with that message. Homophobia is pretty stupid statements. Only on this channel. Yes. I'd like to report that I am both stunning and brave and as the old joke goes, if gay people want to be as miserable as the rest of us. Then more power to him. On this movie was made back in 2003. When same-sex marriage, wasn't legal anywhere in the US during my supposedly green and pleasant land. So there's nothing wrong with this movie in principle. Bots. Well, you click on this video is so you know where I'm going with this. In every respect, you can think of Ben and author is a terrible film. It's being cold. One of the worst movies ever made and it's certainly one of the worst I've ever seen and that's really saying something. It doesn't display a single oil to Italian in any aspect of its production, silly fails at everything. It tries to do. What up, man? Where did that thing come from? You could think of it as the room of gay movies, but it's actually closer to Potomac Ave. Its production quality. And in the sense that it tried to have a positive political message, but was so spectacularly incompetent, but whatever. Message it tried to convey was drowned out by all the rock has lost her, do it. Hugh. At least the room had good production values on some decent talk thing, but been an author is worse than the room in every conceivable way you even and how it shoe horns in a pointless reveal of the direct cause bad ass, which I sense it, because come on, you can join my pay for real know if if you really want to see that. This is indeed the brainchild of the beach. And yes, this is the actual picture. He chose to use on the movie's official website. I mean, at least he's not lacking in confidence. Self-involved filmmaking is Tommy Wiseau, and then turned it up to 11. He is credited for that with me on this director producer or executive producer, lead, actor, screenplay script supervisor. Cinematography fill medicine, costing special, effects makeup sound effects music in music editing. I guess it was really trying to impress somebody in all seriousness. I do feel a bit bad for him because he himself admitted you called do the best job you can, while you're trying to do everything at once, when she was. Do you? Because as you've probably already noticed, the film had a budget equivalent to that fire Festival. You absolutely can make a good film on a micro-budget. It's all about knowing what to do with what you have. But I don't know if there is an amateur in the sense of a new director of learning the Croft and more like a pack of High School drama students who have no idea what that doing visually it looks terrible. The long tongue is all over the place and the cinematography and editing of God awful. The film is full of jarring. Cuts shops that linger too long for no reason and naturally continuity errors. It's also full of the Brooks in Transitions and oddly placed fights. The black rodeo is also horrendous with background noise is often being present. And the sound mixing is also all over the place. I thought I locked it up. I need to know that I can count on you and they seem to have made no attempt to mitigate echoing or keep the environment consistent between Tikes Mill Drive. What do you want? There's been a break-in in the garage, and a manager that asked me to tell everybody to go check their treatment. By the way. The music is the public domain, which would be fine. But pretty much. Every single truck feels completely inappropriate. All of the props. Look hopelessly cheap, which only added to the school. Play Vybz. I kept getting on, the set design is so bizarre that I swear. They were just filming it in our own Apartments. The acting is absolutely Dreadful and often. Incredibly awkward. I don't have the room. May I please have the Rings? Actually, I don't know if I don't have the ring, who do this without being totally. Yes, we can do, without I just stumble over the lines and even look directly into the camera on multiple occasions poisoning or cat person. Oh boy. It is. What you doing? Oh, I don't know. Why, don't you tell me when you going to stop being gay. Thank you, and my heart, my stomach hurt my liver, everything. I just fell right out onto the floor. The story is barely sensical that don't know his lovable. Its representation of the issues is ridiculous and everything in. It is so overrules. So melodramatic and so divorced from reality that you can't take anything that has to say seriously. 2 years. This is ignorance and completely unfair. Comparing got an offer to pawn is an insult, because I've genuinely seen adult films with better writing acting and production values. The beat in the bathtub. Just look at this cover though. What is this something? You're supposed to bust a nut to? Can you take it out? I don't know if it is so bad that it goes completely beyond the power to use. Think it were a homophobic, hit paste is only to smear the gays and that's the movies biggest problem. It's a joint swing-and-miss. It is so hard to be a gay rights movie but fell so fluff on its face that it's even been called the worst game movie of all time. I no one cares what you have to say. When I look at you talking about opening up my own little corner shop. No shit voltage mere words, cannot do justice to just how bad it is. So we're going to go through it together. And remember this film is which makes it a million times. After a hellish lasagna of an opening credits made more Bizarre by, it being accompanied by Scott Joplin's, the Entertainer. We were introduced to a sleepy author Play points somebody himself. Poop goes to bed, wearing shoes. He got so cool from his partner up. Then who's anxious to hear the results of a court case, in Hawaii related to gay marriage, but then his phone battery, runs out. Rendering this scene. A bit pointless. Not sure what band was doing for those 5 hours or what he was even doing out, but he goes home eventually to hear the Happy results. So the couple decided to rush off to Hawaii to get hitched to a totally necessary packing Montage, but then the next day off the Reeds that the judges put a stye on his decision. And I mean, they can't get married in Hawaii anymore. Then doesn't seem that bothered but office pissed. And then Ben drops a bombshell, three years. I'm still finishing up a divorce. If my wife long to tell him would not be a massive, red flag for you, dude. What? That's legitimately how it cuts. I have no words. I told him to get his stupid wife over soon and get the divorce papers signed. He said, okay, I think I took it rather. Well, yeah, you're a real trooper. So Ben's wife comes over, a company, buy some ominous music. I want a divorce. What can you say? You were finishing up the divorce, sexual for three years and his wife had no idea, dude. You kind of a piece of shit, really doing a lot for the cause that remember, she's meant to be the bad guy here. I thought that it would change. You already blame, are we talked to Ben and also working together in a cafe. All the complaints about how shit working in hospitality is, which is relatable off of one. Also a customer too many. He purchased by to Rage Quit. Sugar. Tell your boss on you. Absolutely based on the way. He does wear sandals with socks. So, What's the score? Even so he looks for another job white. What he goes to an audition to be a stripper? How many green screen. That is glorious? That's great. It's your penis still better than working in Hospitality to be fire. I was wondering if the apartment was still available. I thought you were looking for what having no luck. All the tries to borrow money from his brother. Victor. Victor is a heart of religious homophobe. He wants to save off his soul and serves as the antagonist of the movie marevich. Wanted this character to come across as a Titan closer to game on OnStar. We get to the role to Michael haboosh, who is not only gave himself, but a veteran of thumb. A rather colorful filmography. Victor is all so flamboyantly gay with bleach, blonde hair, tattoos and a pink fluffy dressing gown. Subtlety is not on the menu today. Also wants money to go to college, but Victor doesn't want to be able to gaze. So he'll only give off of the money. If he brings been over to Victor's Apartments, trust me, the cat was infinitely more interesting than that. Conversation sometime later author received a death threat, which could only have come from one of like two people but they dismiss it. Like, it's nothing which is really weird. Seeing how that's supposed to be aware of how much homophobia is out there. I don't see why we can't go see an attorney here in California and get married here in a great lawyer. In Beverly Hills. We can give him a call. She advises them to get married in Vermont, then take it to court in California. If it gets challenged. I'm not her friends. At the American civil liberties, Union will support them. Serve a flight to Vermont, which apparently has Palm. Raise. Now, I know get married in what appears to be a garden center accept texts. Apparently, because it's all a matter of those values and principles in, all, gays deserve the same rights as anyone else, but the way you've explained, it makes no sense to cut back to Victor. Who's been trying to contact also, without success. So he has a private investigator. They play off his youth by saying he's an intern while he's in something. All right, sexual, he's going to be marrying, a man. I need to find out what his next move is, and I need to stop this Insanity. I think it's morally wrong. What you doing? Okay. That you're right. You're right. You're right. Okay. Yeah, would you even say it then? Seriously, though. What is this music? Then also brings bed over to Victor's house. Like he promised for a scrumptious dinner. That she posted this guy. This doesn't go down well and offered unintentionally. Hilarious argument that leave and then there's a random completely out of place lovemaking scene, which is cringe nothing cuz it's gay but because it's really cringe missionaries, especially practical, just saying not, authorized out getting food Ben's now ex-wife shows up with a gun. I was at it. Okay, then. And then that'll make it right for us to get married again, huh? You're not making any sense. I don't think he's acting right now. I think he's genuinely confused. As I am. They struggle. Pathetically he takes his gun away and kicks are out, and we never see her again. They don't tell the police about this and swiftly, move on while then magically turns a sweater. They find out about the lawyers. Des and this goes absolutely no way. Someone comes to the door and also opens it without checking who it is. Also, his husband was just threatened with murder. They find out there's been a break-in at the garage and Ben's Bike is being stolen. Yeah, his bike. The thing we never saw him half before. Why do we care about this? Then gets pissed because all the didn't lock the garage. So author has a strop. You've hurt me. You know that you hurt me. Just how do you spell extolling and his ex-wife just trying to kill him. Seriously, fuck off, but Arthur has my other phone isn't willing to display. Their relationship in public know that we haven't got to witness this. They make And we talked back to the gold Squad. Well, holy water recipe that you can shift paprika. So, Victor awkwardly, attaches it to office door and then I don't know what exactly was the plan ahead when she expecting him to just drink it, but it also go on their honeymoon, which just angers victim or so, he goes to see his local Catholic priests who says, he has to kick me out with the church, because he's the brother of a game on. They're afraid that you may hold some sort of carnal deep-seated evil energy. And quite frankly. I'm going to have to ask you to stop offering your services to the church, which is definitely not how the Catholic Church works. Really doesn't Justice. And I have to say that the priest was by far the most appropriate costing. He definitely looks like someone who likes to lose himself for the tears of altar Boyz. This expulsion only makes me even more enraged at his brother, Jamie, Oliver mediates for him. And then fix it goes back to see the priest. Victor thinks that killing author will free him from the demons that I'm making him Gay and thus save his soul, which is definitely not how Christianity works. So the deal is killed when an author and fix. It can come back to the church. I know. Tony is the priest totally fine with this key. Even referred him to a hit man. I swear I'm not making any of this up. Victor Troy's one more time to get alter to repent. For the he told me that you're running a cornershop, what you are. When do we see that happen? Now you say this, what's on Bluebonnet, and shove it up your ass. Let's be honest. One of them already has. So off the kicks him out and then vacuums up. Something that goes out to get more food than to bring the radiant imitating, hit mine to their apartments, and they shoot fun, and leave him for dead. Knowing that his brother is responsible, all the snakes into Victor's Apartments, sick, moves by the way, everything and they have another confrontation that meant to be dramatic, but can't help but be hilarious. Your ass to go to detective earlier that he gets let go and the cops never show up. Again off of listens in as Victor cools. The priest then goes directly to the church was the priest into giving him the hit man's name and address. Not that he ever does anything without information, knocks him out with nail polish remover, Sasha is back to his car to get some gasoline and then the priests unlife, this film is going. Directions off of them retrieves, been from the hospital. The fact that the American health-care system would let him go home and not buy. The condition is the most realistic thing about the movie, Victor shows up to their apartment again, and again, they don't check who it is before opening the door at this point. It's just Darwinism in action. Anacostia goes to Victor, chloroform's author, but doesn't restrain him for some reason, then stripped him naked and forcibly. Baptized him in the bathtub. I'm pretty sure this is somebody's Kink. Victor chloroform's him again. Again leaves him unrestrained also did no one else in the apartment block. React to the gunshots or do they say about what a naughty boy? He's being an author G. Begun been took from his wife earlier. That's what she wants. You want to fuck me, don't you factor? This is a reference to that famous scene from Scarface book, way more questionable. Genuinely spy on me again. This is nothing short of amazing. And that's how it is with several bangs on a whimper. Been. An author is about as big a fighter as you can get. While I actually remembering to turn the camera on on yet. I kind of liked it. It was motivated out of, I'm a genuine injustice. How much the product of sincere Passion by someone who both wanted to make a name for himself, on make a difference in some way marevich, spent years of his life and a lot of his own money to make this happen and he did and I can't help but respect that, more than the steel soulless corporate trash. We get on the daily at least and he seems to have taken the criticism in his destroyed. Admitting that the movie has its faults and that he was out of his depth when making it and he seems to have kept his head high. So good for him on frankly. I was having way too much fun with been an offer to have anything, but positive feelings towards it. This one is firmly within the so bad. It's good category. If you can, especially with a group of friends and a load of alcohol and Lube, you won't regret it. I don't know. I don't have to say this to you guys. All right, good here. Except Maps. They can do one. Pretty. Poor choice of words. I just remember, folks. It's not gay. If it's in a threeway. That's great. It's your penis. So seeing how the twitch metagame is working right now, but maybe I should do a video of me, licking my microphone. So that's what I'm going to end this video on. Okay, what do I what do I even start my start? Do you still have the base or do you start the test? All right. So it is not enough to start an onlyfans with. Let me know in the comments, if you pay for that. Thanks for watching, folks. If you enjoy the video, give it a liking to share and all that good stuff. Shout out to my patrons and YouTube channel members page for channel members, get early access to uncensored version to videos without assholes phones of ships, as well as a mention here in the credits. So, if you want to enjoy those benefits and help support the channel, consider becoming a picture to remember yourself, find sorcerer to nordvpn for sponsoring. Once again, check that out to support the channel to link in the description. Also consider heading over to follow me on Twitch. If you want to see me stream, follow me on Twitter and join my public Discord server for updates, and I'll see you in the next one.
