 This video is sponsored by reykon that Bluetooth wireless everyday it, but will give you awesome audio quality or if you happen to go and whatever you happen to use them for. Judge me. The super convenient fit comfortably and discreetly, and they've made even the most mundane of tasks plane chillingly. I so much time for that thing. You might possibly have heard of that thing is really distracted. So, what about spooky podcasts, for anyone on your list? They will have his right. Well, hopefully, anyway, I've started colors to choose from. You can find the right one for any of them. Since they start a half, the price of other premium audio. Bronze, you'll have more money from its poison booze. I'm with free shipping and returns, giving the gift of sound has never been easier. You can even get 15% off across the entire clicking, the link in the description or going to Bali, raycon.com cynical reviews and using the code holiday and by doing so you'll be helping to support the channel. So or I'll slide down your chimney and leave something mess in your stocking, make of that. What you will? No, God, please. No. Well, you certainly didn't attempt. Hello, guys, it's time to talk about YouTube again. My favorite topic could you possibly go several minutes without being yourself. Would that really be so hard because you did the thing? The thing that we said was bad and that you shouldn't do because I needed it anyway because that's who you are. Once again, the you chew powers-that-be have descended from a top that Ivory Tower. This is Big Brain move since YouTube Heroes and we thought those were the dark times. How little we knew in that incident in comprehensible wisdom. They hiding the dislike some videos. So, the update from YouTube, is that the dislike button is staying but the dislike counts will now be private. You can still disliked videos and that action will be used to tune your own recommendations, but you won't be able to see the dislike count. Only the Creator can find it on the backend if they want immediate inevitable reaction to which was, of course, everyone disliked that we're going to be together. Alright 321 This decision is so baffling in terms of how bad it is. And yet so unsurprising considering who is coming from. I couldn't not talk about it and moan about it. Mostly moan about it. It's good. It's good for the system because all jokes aside. This really is a terrible change. And I want to talk about why this likes of always being an important and essential feature on this platform has affected them. When you write a video out of 5 stars, like in the olden days, the ratio of likes dislikes, gives if you a quick impression of how well-received a video is, which in most cases were roughly correspond to the video is quality. If a video house around 1 to 5, % dislikes. That generally indicates that it's a good video is the dislikes it up to about 10% than that. Might indicate that the video how is misuse or maybe something that was said in the video struck a nerve with a certain group of people roughly 30 to 40% He makes good content and white ball. Looks like a lightsaber, you know, that video results of trash that probably should have been uploaded in the first place. This is obviously a very rough metric and it isn't always true. That gives you a general idea. There is so much garbage being uploaded to this website. Every second on view is only have so much time to waste. So the like this like that is an immediate and effective way to one of you or about content a site like YouTube or all the content is user-generated and motivation is extremely difficult. It's one of the best systems. We have the putting down the bad content and allowing the good content to rise to the top. Especially since the number of dislikes will affect whether or not a video is recommended in the algorithm. Just imagine if we review sites could only show positive, ratings into giving bad media, more of your time and attention than it deserves. And that is exactly what's going to happen. Now on YouTube hiding, the amount of dislikes is going to encourage trash clickbait and videos with reprehensible concert. Thereby, making this platform of worst place. Now. This again is about protecting all creators and making sure they have a chance to succeed and feel safe and doing some kind of sick joke. Like, regardless of what YouTube says, there is no way that this is going to be like in a democratic way in, what is essentially the wisdom of crowds. It's a simple way for us to express our distaste or objections of the content of his intentions. Remember, when the Fine Brothers, tried to trademark reaction content on YouTube dislikes, a trailer for an incredibly unfunny and inflammatory movie or show, get disliked greedy, corporations. Try to be down with the kids will make it incredibly out touch political statements disliked. It's the easiest and clearest way for us as an online community to say. No, we don't want this. No, there's no justice. Like angry mob, Justice random unconnected people on the internet would work together to keep things perfectly balanced, as all things should be. Well, don't do that anymore. Thanks, YouTube dislikes of even such an important role in online mean culture, if it hadn't been possible to dislike. Rebecca Black's Friday, then it wouldn't become one of the most disliked videos in history of US attained. Its legendary memes de to us as we caught see the dislikes. Awesome. The most important reason why I just like to say, I sent you is because they help protect the view from home for content and scams. Remember When The Verge uploaded a PC Bill guy. That was not only incorrect but also dangerous, like it was so bad that if you follow their advice, you could damage your PC or even hurt yourself, the massive amount of dislikes not video received. For a PC build guide. This one isn't exactly Keno. This is editing c.j. Who just realize this might not actually be a very good example because of a job. She just labeled lunch and the comments on this video before they took it down. So, yeah, well, my point still stands. There are also plenty of helpful guides and tutorials that will trick you into deleting some essential system. Will downloading some malware that will then fuc up your peace. Again a large amount of dislikes can immediately tell if you it to get the fuck out of Dodge. And that's not even mentioning the tutorials that are just useless and waste your time. And so by hiding him out of this likes, you too great. A risk of real-world harm. Good job. You supposed Tech experts well done. So we've lost an important for judging the quality of content. We've lost the Democratic way to raise objections to buy practices. We've lost an easy way to warn others about scams and harmful content, and we'd even lost a fun little tool for online Shenanigans. But why, why have they done this? Once the reason 12 or they're blocked in YouTube, Twitter account on the video. They released explaining the situation. They said that it was tradition Sun. Voice trolling and harassment through dislike bombing. Apparently groups of viewers are targeting of videos, dislike button to drive up the count, turning it into something like a a game with a visible scoreboard. And it's usually just because they don't like the Creator or what they stand for. That's a big problem. When half of the YouTubes mission is to give everyone a voice but their explanations make no sense or incredibly dismissive. And condescending. I'm just bullshit. Really. I mean just look at this guy's expression. That is the face of a man who knows he's being thrown to the Wolves. So earlier in 2021 YouTube experimenting with making the public dislike count private to see if it would help reduce these coordinated dislike attacks across the platform. And after analysis. They did see a reduction. No shit. Now, harassment campaigns are real thing and they really suck to be on the end of especially, for small crisis. And, yes, if you remove the public dislike count, they will be. It's just like when they abbreviate to the public subscribe account, so you come and get those unsubscribing lifestreams. There were thing back in 2019, but I keep accidentally hitting my keyboard in the image behind me, keeps changing. That's really fucking annoying. Now. It's in its own folder, so we can stay the fuck on the screen now. Don't fucking move and it's usually just because they don't like the Creator or what they stand for the majority of the time of video, get this like bombed. It's because it warranted it and we shouldn't lose the ability to do that. Just because some people abused that this is. So characteristic of YouTube a certain feature gets abused. They can't figure out a way to fix that. The feature completely I say, we take off and nuke the entire site from orbit. The only way to be sure, they got rid of the reply videos function because he abused by the reply, go sit with Spong. They're obnoxious clickbait videos all across the websites that show YouTube, history lesson for you. They got rid of community captions, which allowed viewers to upload subtitles in their own language, in the world, in the videos reach because some troglodytes were misusing them to advertise their own shity channels. They also got rid of any useful. I can be used to make a choose-your-own-adventure series is, but they have to go to because some people were taking the piss with them, and those are just three examples of how you tried to fix a problem, but just ended up making website worse. It's definitely a running theme. Basically, there was an attempt in this case that claiming that its protect creative mental health, which makes no sense because we can still see the dislikes on Orange and YouTube studio. So we still know if a video is being most disliked next. Common question, if creators can still see the dislike. Count on the backend. How's that any different? They can see it if they look for it inside, Studio analytics, under the engagement tab, but overall, it's much less likely to cause stress and embarrassment. If the count isn't visible to the public to, who, who did you ask? Because it certainly wasn't the people that make the concert that brings people to your platform in the first place. If they really cared about our mental health. They wouldn't have this video performance chart staring straight in the face. When we open YouTube Studio. There's no way to hide this, by the way. And have a video is before being 10th place out, 10, not stings more than any amount of dislikes. Let me tell you, but if they really really tired, they fix that platform, so it doesn't give us some grief. I need help us deal with ridiculous. Copyright claims. I don't remove our best performing video from search results for no reason for the bullshit excuse. That one still stings. They're also fun at claim that this was the result of creative feedback, which is also nonsense. Because again, when they announced this, the feedback from creators was overwhelmingly negative response that they knew was coming. I mean, you knew this was coming because they tried this biking Marsh on the response back, then was all so overwhelming. This like we told them that this is a terrible idea when we don't want it and then they shouldn't do it. And then they went ahead and did it. Anyway, classic YouTube, am I so out of touch? No, it's the children who are wrong, even when they were first talking about removing dislikes off to YouTube Rewind 2018, became the most disliked video on the platform. They knew that this likes were important and that hiding them would be problematic. Another option is just to remove dislikes entirely from YouTube. That's a very extreme option. That one seems like kind of not super Democratic in my opinion because all dislikes are disliked mom's or just, you know, people expressing their their opinion about a video. Maybe I'm more subtle. One is removing the dislike count. I don't know if you just suppressed the dislike count, but you show the light down that one seems. I mean, I work on the work that you do have a case for creators, but that one seems kind of like tilting the scales a little bit bad. According to Linus, from Linus Tech tips. He was present at meetings with you to about this issue of the community's concerns were completely ignored. So don't give me this horseshit about creative feedback. Albert, we got stomach Street, Vacaville Outlets from our creators. And we need to respect their wishes. Turn off. The Creator's already have, which is to remove likes and dislikes in toilet results in the bullying and harassment of those that do. So, which I'm sorry, but just like disabling comments hiding, the amount of likes and dislikes, just makes it look like you're trying to Noah criticism or cover up. The fact that you're video is bad and it should make anyone in mediately suspicious and I'm sorry, but the feelings about small number of Creations that do have to disable the like and dislike fall because they are getting harassed. Do not outweigh. All the concerns that we've already talked about. Look I get it, it sucks. But they're much bigger issues at stake here. Unfortunately. YouTube disagrees, they even admit that this like seven important function for the uses, but then just say that on balance. They don't care. I've always thought seeing the number of dislikes on a video, helps us know as viewers if it's a good video or not. If it's a helpful tutorial or not, or if what a Creator is, is saying in their video is generally agreed with or not. But overall, it's much less likely to cause stress and embarrassment. If the count isn't visible to the public, you've made your platform worse and more dangerous for its uses just to protect some people's feelings. I'm sorry, but that's fucking stupid. Do you know that, true that explanation cannot be true? Because even YouTube channel, be that stupid because you know how reliable YouTube's reporting system is so they won't know what a good view to like ratio. Looks like I'm with no other contacts. They might think we're all three million people. Lunch this video. It might be good. First public dislike, count. How can you tell if a video is worth watching? Again? I kind of had this question, too, but it turns out that while viewers might use the dislike count to give them a sense of a video is worth when the teams. Look at the data across millions of viewers and videos in the experiment. They didn't see a noticeable difference in viewership. Regardless of whether they could see the dislike count or Not Another words. Didn't really matter if a video had a lot of dislikes or not. They still watched right source. Discredit the importance of dislikes in order to justify hiding them, and I'm calling both y'all. S reviews. So that's the update. I hope it doesn't cause too much frustration. Honestly. I think you're going to get used to it pretty quickly and keep in mind. Other platforms. Don't even have a dislike button. So consider that. Thank you. And I hope you're well. Notice how condescending that was. Can you see more paranoid? We have gone. Well beyond the animated Avatar Crossing his arms. At this point. We have going right to the source. Even PornHub is still showing just like counts. PornHub is now more user-friendly than YouTube. Just let that sink in and everything. They said about dislikes, can also be applied to the comments. Are they going to remove those as well? Because, some comments as a toxic. Can you imagine not even being able to leave a comment on a dangerous or misleading video? Just imagine how fucking Dreadful this platform will become if they follow this logic? Justice to my head still headed. This is all assuming that we can take those statements about their motivations at face. Value thing is though. I don't believe for a moment that this has anything to do with helping small creators. Because not only does it make no sense for them to prioritize the well-being of smoke Rises over other concerns. 16. There was a huge issue with view is being automatically unsubscribed from their favorite channels without their knowledge, which caused some big names across the platform to bring attention to it. You seem to be that YouTube flip the switch. And then all of a sudden people are just getting unsubscribe from channels. But when I got this message from PewDiePie, just a couple of days ago. He said, YouTube's unsub me from your channel. I just realized I haven't seen your videos and while this is so fucked. I mean that's encouraging, YouTube response was blowing themselves. We've been hearing reports from viewers that they've been unsubscribe from channels that they've been previously subscribe to. What's up with that. I was seriously, YouTube doesn't unsubscribe, people from channels. We never unsubscribe them from your channel. You looked at over a hundred individual cases and so far. We haven't been able to find any underlying glitch YouTube Dove. Unsubscribe people from channels. A response that was so fucking terrible, that they deleted the video, especially when you asked you to what's up, and they tell you, nothing wrong. That's feels good to find years later. I still get comments and messages about it. This is what I mean, when I say fix your platform, but yeah, you'll have to excuse me if I'm a bit. Well, and one more, question, is it because YouTube Rewind got lots of dislikes, know, although there are some teams internally who have learned the hard way. What it feels like to get lots of dislikes. This is our only client. I actually believed well, sort of having your most important Showcase of the Year, become the most disliked video on your platform is pretty embarrassing. Let's be honest. I want me just don't talk about removing dislikes off to this happened. I think that the real motivation for this change is monetary. We've known for a very long time that you chew. Prioritizes. It's money makers. Whether that be the largest and most profitable creatures, all the corporations that pay for iPods. I driven you is what keeps YouTube going. As of now, it just as I can be with it. Sometimes he'll do a video about that will run out. Just straight-up pornographic because money and it's embarrassing for a corporation to pay a shitload of money to run an ad campaign on YouTube. Only two, they receive a huge amount of negative feedback from the community that kind of immediate and vocal backlash on that scale is simply something that doesn't happen to ask that run on traditional media. I just bear in mind that YouTube is directly competing with traditional media for a space Mutual put up with his money just like says we can throw at them as long as that making money. But if corporations threatened to pull that money unless you to do something to protect them from him, then you better believe, they'll get off their asses and do something just like when they brought in the demonetization system when corporations boycotted the platform during the eclipse conspiracy. There is if you want. But I think that's what happened behind closed doors. I just realized that when there was an angle. You can't fucking see my eyes is this really was about protecting phrases, then they don't about it in front of the incompetent and ham-fisted way, that does nothing. But make the platform worse for all but a few but having seen YouTube's priorities in the past, like, fully believe that just likes to be hidden in order to protect my feelings and image of paying corporations. That's protecting YouTube spot in line, but it is immense cost of the user experience. The people that will benefit by far the most from this change. A big corporations people that make shity content and scam artists. I need, they're the ones who benefit the most probably isn't a good idea. Is it YouTube? I honestly think that this is one of the worst changes YouTube has ever implemented. It's so bad, but one of the original founders of YouTube directly responded to it and the description of the first ever video uploaded on the Something he'd only done once before when they tried to force Google Plus on all of us. And here he is basically saying with my boy. It's really quite frustrating us both of you and creator of content on this website because I genuinely want this platform to be good for all of us, but they keep making changes, but nobody wants to completely ignore your advice on making the platform worse. It's just It's just frustrating. You know, what can we do about it? Then? I'm going to change them on now and then we'll just have to get used to using comments as and you dislike bar. I guess this makes is still an important form of feedback for us. The Creator's. So feel free to give this video. It just like if you want, I can take it. And let me know what you think about all this. Nonsense down in the comments. Dammit YouTube. Can you just can you just not do this shit, please? Please call get any worse or suppose. No, I really should have said that other platforms don't even have disliked, but quick announcement. I now have new much. The mic was covering it for like all of the video because this is how I had to do my set up but yes, here it is. You much. I've just launched a brand new merch store on spreadsheet with five new designs. In addition to the crop aboard. I've got one that's inspired by retro cartoons. This cheeky Dungeons & Dragons and spiders on the so bad. It's good cop on nipple buttons because I made a joke of all back about putting that on the t-shirt and so, fuck it bounced. Her, there were dozens of products to choose from for each design. And if you order within the next few days, you can get 15% off Link in the description. If you want us to pull the channel. Also consider checking out this phone. So try calling also Link in the description. You can also support me on patreon or become a YouTube channel number for as little as $1 a month. Can get early access the uncensored version videos without ads or sponsorships as well as to mention hair in the credits. Follow me on my social media and join my public Discord server. And I'll see you in the next 10. And by the way in case you were wondering, yes, this is an imperial Knights. Not just telling actually I will paint it at some point. I will at some point. At some point. You really think someone would do that.
