Welcome to the huberman Lab podcast. We discussed science science basic tools for everyday life. I'm Andrew huberman and I'm a professor of neurobiology and Ophthalmology at Stanford School of Medicine. Today's episode is about the biology psychology and practices of social. Bonding from the day. We are born until the day. We die the quality of our social bonds, dictates much of our quality of life and should therefore be no, surprise that our brain and indeed, much of our entire nervous system is wired for social bonds, the social bonds occur between infant and parent there. Even particular wiring diagrams within the brain and spinal cord and body that are oriented towards the specific bonds that occur between infant and mother as well as infant and father, and we have specific brain circuitry for friendship. Specific brain. Circuitry, is that are activated in romantic relationships and as it goes specific brain circuitry that are activated when we break up with a romantic partner or when they break up with us or Wednesday. Buddy passes away moves away or otherwise leaves our lives in one form or another. Today. We are going to talk about those brain and nervous system. We also going to talk about the chemicals and hormones that underlie their function and we are going to touch on a number of important and actionable tools that you can apply in everyday life and because we are headed into the holiday, the New Year's and Christmas holiday that you can deploy in your various interactions with family members and friends. And should you not be spending time with family members and friends? Today. We are also going to talk about how to achieve social bond out of the context of family and romantic partnership and friendship. So today's episode is going to include a lot of science. A lot of actionable tools and I'm confident you'll come away from today's episode with tremendous knowledge about how you function. For instance. If you're an introvert or an extrovert. Why is that turns out there may be a neurochemical basis for that. Maybe your son. That really enjoy social media maybe or somebody that doesn't say I'm going to talk about a gene or set of genes that predict whether or not you will follow more people or seek out more online. Social interactions were fewer. Believe it or not. There's biology around that now and it's excellent for reviewed work. We will also talk about how bonds are broken and why break up can be so painful, not just romantic breakups 2, makeups, with friendships and co-workers and how to move through those more seamlessly. So, regardless of your age and regardless of whether or not you are in a romantic Partnership of one form or another or not. I do believe this episode will be useful to you. As you explore the social bonds that already exist in your life. And as you seek out new and changing social bonds, before we begin, I'd like to emphasize the podcast is separate for my teaching and research role at Stanford. It is however part of my desire, an effort to bring zero cost at consumer information about science and science related tools to the general public in keeping with that be might like to thank us. Sponsors of today's podcast is Roca Roca, make eyeglasses and sunglasses that are the absolute highest quality. I spend a lifetime working on the biology, the visual system, and the visual system has many important features that allow us for instance to see things with Crystal Clarity. Even if it's brightly-lit dimly-lit where they're changing brightness in our environment, Roca eyeglasses and sunglasses are designed with the biology of the visual system in mind. So when you wear them, you don't have to take them off and put them back on like you would with other types of sunglasses and Eyeglasses. You're always going to see things with Crystal Clarity in addition. There very lightweight. So, usually forget that you're wearing them. I certainly forget when I'm wearing mine. I wear readers at night and when I drive and I wear sunglasses often throughout the day, the other thing that's really great about Roca eyeglasses and sunglasses is that you can wear them doing anything. You can wear them running while cycling to get sweaty. They won't fall off your face, but unlike a lot of other performance eyeglasses out there. They have a terrific aesthetic. Could also where to The school out to dinner, the basic can be worn anywhere anytime. If you'd like to try Roca eyeglasses and sunglasses. You can go to Roca, that's are okay. Calm, and enter the code huberman to save. 20% off your first order. Again. That's Roca are okay. Calm and enter the code Huber minute. Check out to get 20% off. Today's episode biotic, drink. I started taking off. Let It Go way back in 2012 and taking it ever since that they're sponsoring the podcast reason I started today is because it covers all of my vitamin mineral probiotic foundational needs. A wealth of evidence pointing to the fact that vitamins minerals and probiotic, support healthy, gut microbiome, the immune system healthy nervous system. Healthy endocrine system is hormone system. And without the lettuce greens are really covers all those bases. In fact, when people ask me, what One supplement they should take, I recommend athletic greens. If you like to try athletic greens, you can go to athletic greens.com huberman. And if you do that, you can claim a special offer. They're giving 5 free travel packs, which make it very easy to mix up the athletic greens while on the road in the car on the plane etcetera plus a year supply of vitamin D3 K2. There's a lot of evidence supporting that vitamin D3 is great for our metabolism endocrine system. Moved sleep number, to biological function in K2, has also been shown to be important for cardiovascular health, and various aspects of blood lipids. So again, if you go to Athleta green.com huberman, you can claim a special offer to get your athletic greens. 5 free travel packs of athletic green plus a year supply of vitamin, D3, K2, today's episode published studies and has over 600,000, five star reviews. I've been meditating for a very long time, more than three decades, but I confess I haven't been a consistent, meditator until recently. I think many people That experience. We've all heard about the traffic science and benefits of a regular meditation, practice. Things like reduce anxiety, improve sleep, sharper, cognition, and focus. However, sticking to meditation practice, can be tricky and many people, start, and then they stopped at least that's what happened to me until a few years ago when I start using the headspace app to do. My meditation headspace has short meditations of just a couple minutes long longer meditations. Ideally for me. I like to do a 20-minute meditation at least three times a week, but sometime because of my schedule and other things going on. I only sneak in a five-minute meditation once or twice a week with headspace. You have a huge number of meditations to select from. So if you want to try headspace, you can go to headspace. Calm special offer, and if you do that, you'll get a completely free 1-month trial. All of headspaces meditation, set, the full library of medications that headspace has to offer. That's the best deal. Offered by head space right now. So again, if you're interested, go to headspace. Calm, special offer today, let's talk. But the biology of social bonding, and I want to point out that I used the word bonding intentionally. It's a verb, and in biology. We want to think about verbs, because everything in biology process. It's not an event. And when we think about things in biology of the process, that means it's going to have multiple steps. And today, we are going to explore bonding, meaning how social bonds were established, how they are maintained, how they are broken and how they are reestablished, the future of biology generally, but in particular, as it relates to social bonding, is that the neural circuits, meaning the brain areas and neurons, and the hormones things like oxytocin which will talk about today and the other chemicals in the brain and body that are responsible for the process. We call social bonding are not unique to particular social bonds. They are generic what I mean by that is that the same brain circuits that are responsible for establishing a bond between parent and child are actually repurposed in romantic relationships. This might not come as a surprise to many of you. Many of you are probably familiar with this idea of securely attached people versus anxious attached people versus avoidant attachment. People. We're going to touch on that a little bit, but all of that has roots in whether or not children and parents, formed healthy, social Bond or whether or not they had challenged social bonds. Now, it's clear from the scientific and psychological literature that just because you might have had a not-so-great or even terrible, social bond with a parent, or with some of their caretaker or loved one is a child that doesn't fit you to have poor social bonds as an adult. There's a lot of plasticity in the system, meaning it can change in response to experience and as we will soon discover. Are there specific components within the neural circuits of your brain, that is responsible for social bonding that allow you to play subjective labels on why you are doing certain things. And to rewire the neural circuits for social bonding, we're going to touch on all of that today, but the important feature really, to point out is that we don't have 12 different circuits in the brain and body four different types of social Bond. We have one and there's some Universal features that underlie all forms of social bonds. So we're going to start by exploring what those neural circuits are. And then we're going to see how they plug in two different types of social bonds. And then we are going to explore things like introversion extraversion. Where you going to touch on a little bit about things like trauma, Bond, healthy Bond, and various other aspects of how humans can bond to one another. And as you'll soon discover, there is a unique chemical signature of all bonding of all kinds, and you're going to learn how to modulate that chemicals. Before we talk about social bonding. I want to talk about it to mirror image which is lack of social bonding or social isolation. Now for better for worse. There was a tremendous literature on the biology of social isolation and all of the terrible things that happen when animals or humans are socially isolated the particular phases of life. Now, for those of you that are introverts, you are not necessarily damaging Yourself by deciding to spend less time with other people many people like time alone. I personally am an introvert a thrill out of spending time with one or two close friends. I enjoy a lot of time by myself. I like to socialize so I wouldn't call myself an extreme introvert, but I know there's some extreme introverts out there, but we talked about social isolation is, when animals or humans are restricted from having the social contacts that they would prefer to have and to just briefly touch on the major takeaways from this literature. Advanced back a hundred years or more. Being socially isolated is stressful and one of the Hallmark features of social isolation is chronically elevated stress hormones, like adrenaline also called epinephrine like cortisol stress hormone that at healthy levels is good for combating inflammation. Helps us have energy early in the day focused throughout the day, but if cortisol is elevated for too long, which is the consequence of social isolation, immune system, suffers and other chemicals start to be released in the brain and body that are designed to motivate the organism animal or human to seek out social bonds. An example of one such chemical is a peptide. Called tacky tacky. Kynan is present in flies in mice, and in humans and under conditions of social isolation levels, go up and because of the brain areas that contains receptors for tacky kind in people start feeling very aggressive and irritable after social isolation. And that should be a little bit counterintuitive to you, think of, you know, if you isolate an animal or human and then you give them the opportunity for social interaction. They should behave very well. They should be thrilled. They're finally getting the nourishment, the social harassment that they've been lacking for so long, it turns out that's not the case. Chronic social isolation changes, the nature of the brain and body such that it makes social connection harder. And it makes the person who's been isolated, irritable, even aggressive with other people. Do, I don't want to go too deeply into the biology of social isolation because it doesn't actually afford US that much insight into what healthy social bonding looks like. So today we're going to focus more on the functional biology. Do meaning of the word functional as opposed to the Pathology of social isolation. However, I do want to point out that social isolation starts to deteriorate certain aspects of brain and body pretty quickly, but how quickly depends again on how introverted or extroverted somebody is. So, if you're somebody who's socially isolated for the holidays worth and socially isolated for a. Of time, and it's craving, social contact. That is a healthy craving and as well. Learn next, the healthy craving for social contact, has a very specific brain circuit has a very specific neuro chemical signature associated with it. And at the remarkable features that you can leverage in Social contacts of all kinds. I think some of the more important and exciting work on social bonding comes from. The laboratory of Katy k is a professor at the Salk Institute for biological studies. She's an investigator with the Howard Hughes Medical Institute. And in recent years, her laboratory has made a fundamental Discovery as to why we seek out and put so much effort into social bonds. And the key discovery that she made is that much like hunger much like temperature much like thirst. We have brain circuits that are devoted to what's called a social homeostasis. You probably heard about homeostasis before, homeostasis is the characteristic of various biological circuits and even individual cells to try and maintain a certain level most easily thought of in the context of hunger. You don't eat for a while, your drive to pursue food and think about food, and make food and spend money on food and indeed to enjoy food, goes up your welfare. You don't tend to seek out food with as much bigger or as much intensity wouldn't invest as much time, effort, money at cetera. The homeostasis is the aspect of cells tissues and organisms to seek some sort of balance to regulate themselves in a crude way. You can think about the thermostat on your home as a homeostatic circuit. When the temperature goes up a little bit, it cools things down to maintain a certain temperature when the room gets cold, it hits a certain level, and a sensor detects that clicks on and then he goes on to maintain a certain set temperature. That's a simple way of thinking about every homeostatic circuit has three components or at least 31 is a detector, meaning the organism or the thermostat on your wall, have to have some way of detecting what's going on in the environment. All right, in the context of social bonding whether or not you are interacting with others and whether or not those interactions are going well. So that have to be detected. That's the first thing. Call center. That's the second thing in the control center is the one that makes the adjustments to, in the case of social bonding to your behavior and your psychology. You'll learn that there are ways in which the more time that you spend alone. The more motivated you are to seek out the pictures of faces. The interactions with actual people, physical contact, and so forth. Now that might seem obvious to you. But thanks for the work of Kate. I and others. It's remarkable to learn that their specific brain centers that are adjusting our psychology and biology. So that we seek out Bond more aggressively or maybe we don't because we are perfectly stated or satiated with respect to how much contact we had with other people. Now, the third component of this homeostatic circuit is the effector. The effector is actually what drives the behavioral response is. What, it's what leads you to pick up your social media and start scrolling. It's what leads you to text a friend. It's what leads you to call a friend or make plans and what leads you to follow through on those plan. So, again, those three components are a detector Control Center and effector and as you'll soon, learn the neural circuit that controls the social homeostasis actually has a force component. And that fourth component is one that place is subjective understanding as to why you are doing what you were doing. And Establishes your place in a hierarchy. And I know the word hired, he can be a little bit of a, of a barbed wire. One because people immediately start thinking about boss and subordinate or in couples a leader and follower, but we talked about social hierarchies in the social hierarchies are very plastic meaning in one setting, one person can be the leader in another setting. The other person to be the leader. You probably have groups of friends or family members where you're constantly passing the Baton as to, who's going to drive, who's going to navigate, who's going to pick the restaurant, who's going to clear the dishes and who's going to do certain activities and not others to higher keys are very Dynamic. And as a consequence of social bonding has to be very plastic and very fluid. So that you move from one environment to the next. Even with the same people, you have to be able to make those adjustments. And in the case of the social homeostasis, or get those adjustments are made by a particular. Structure of talked about in this podcast before, it's called the prefrontal cortex. It is the seat of our higher Consciousness. If you will, it's what allows us to play subjective labels on things. So we are not strictly input-output. We're not robotic meaning, if you go to dinner with a friend and they are exceptional at choosing restaurant. Well, in the context of the social homeostasis circuit, your prefrontal cortex won't allow them to pick the restaurant because basically they are dominant over you in their capacity to pick. Good restaurants at least in this example. We're at, as you leave that restaurant. And perhaps you are navigating to where to get a drink after dinner or where to walk through the city, perhaps you have the better sense of direction. And so then the social bonding has to be maintained as you switch the higher fee. Okay. So that's the role of that, fourth element, the prefrontal cortex. Now, I just briefly want to touch on some of the brain areas that. Thanks for the work of Kate. I and others. We now know underlie the detection control and responsibility. It's okay. I called them the detector Control Center and effector because inside of that description, isn't just a bunch of names of neural structures. They're also hints as to what the underlined neurochemicals are. And by understanding what the neural chemicals are. You can start to think about tools that you can use to form social Bond and maintain social bond in better healthier ways. So, let's talk about the mind that you have your senses. You have Vision hearing touch of smell taste sensation, as I talked about men country for the podcast, but I'll just remind you since station is the conversion of physical stimuli in the environment into electrical and chemical signals in your nervous system. The language of the nervous system is electrical and chemical signal. So photons of light are converted to electrical and chemical signals pressure on the skin or light touch on the skin. Is converted into electrical and chemical signals and so on and so forth. So, all of that, of course, is flowing into the nervous system, but the detector that underlies social home Stasis involves mainly two structures. One is called the ACC, the anterior, cingulate cortex. And the other is the b l a basal lateral, amygdala, and when you hear the word amygdala, you're probably thinking fear. But today is you'll see. The middle actually has many different sub, compartments and components. And there's a reason why the basolateral amygdala is associated with certain aspects of aversive behaviors me, moving away from certain types, of things are interactions. There's a reason why the vla is such an integral part of the detector system. And that's because just as it's important to form healthy social Bond, it's vitally important to try and avoid unhealthy social Bond. And so the basolateral make a lot is mainly associated. With these, aversive type responses of just moving away from certain things. The control center in the social homeostasis circuit involves a brain area called the lateral hypothalamus, and the periventricular hypothalamus, the lateral hypothalamus, and the periventricular hypothalamus container on that are able to access the hormone system in order to influence the release of things like oxytocin, which is a hormone neuropeptide. It's got a transmitter. It's kind of a hybrid. We're going to talk a lot about oxytocin today. So we've got the ACC in the vla. There's their areas are mainly involved in moving away from things. Although also toward them. That's the detector. Then we got the control center, which is it in the hypothalamus and then there's a very special and important area associated with social bonding that I want everyone to learn, which is the dorsal. Root is a nucleus or DRM dorsal? Rafi. Nucleus. The dorsal, Rafi. Nucleus is a small collection of neuron in the midbrain, so it's deep in the brain. And most of the time when you hear about raffay raphe, by the way, Ralph a nucleus, you're talkin about serotonin later. That is often associated with feelings of satiety, after eating warmed basically satisfaction with things that you already have. However, within this dorsal raphe nuclei, if there's a small subset of neuron that release dopamine. Dopamine is in there. A modulator most often associated with movement craving motivation and desire. And the neural circuits that are rich with dopamine or things like a substantial. I'd rather memes Olympic dopamine system, the VTA, the nucleus accumbens, etc. Those names, don't have to mean anything to you. However, this unique population of dopamine neurons in the RAF a is truly unique in that is responsible for mediating. What I've been calling a social homeostasis. Is the effector for the response that mediate social homeostasis. I haven't told you exactly what social homeostasis is just like hunger is the process by which when you lack social interaction you start to Crave. It was very interesting about the fact that their dopamine neurons in this Raff, a structure. That is the effector worth social homeostasis. Is that what this means is that when you are not interacting with people at a frequency or intensity, that is right, for you dopamine is released into the brain in most popular conversations about dopamine. And even in scientific circles, when you hear dopamine release, you think about reward or feeling good because indeed many behaviors and drugs of abuse increase, dopamine. One of the reasons they have so much addictive potential. However, dopamine is not associated with feeling good. It is actually the neurochemical that's responsible for movement toward things that feel good. So, does zoom out and conceptualize what we have here, we have a brain area. That is a detector that either will move us toward or away from certain types of experiences or sensation. We have a control center that is going to release certain hormones and there are peptides into our brain and blood, depending on the sort of interactions that we happen to be having. And we have this response system, which is the dorsal, Rafi. Nucleus, that contains dopamine neurons. And when we are not interacting with people at the frequency and intensity, That We crave dopamine is released and that dopamine causes us to seek out social interactions of particular kinds. So let's talk about what social homeostasis is and how it plays out. And again, let's use hunger as an example. So, let's say you're a person who eats every 3 or 4 hours regularly. So on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, you're just accustomed to eating every 3 or 4 hours. If just suddenly I steal your meal out of the fridge at work. Something I would not do. But just for sake of mental, experimentation. That would probably cause you to go and seek out food through some other route, my buy food you probably upset first, but then you go buy food, or replace the food that you're going to be hungry for that food. And indeed, there are hormonal, type mechanisms and other mechanisms that when we eat regularly and we predict that food is coming in. We actually start secreting insulin, which is for mobilizing blood sugar or their hormones in the bloodstream that make us hungry on a regular clock like schedule and you would seek out more food. Similarly. If you're somebody who is accustomed to a lot of social interaction and suddenly I take away that social interaction. You would feel kind of let down you would crave a replacement social interaction. You might be upset that you had a lunch date with a friend. You're used to having lunch with them every Wednesday and they cancel and you would crave the interaction. Okay. This is called a pro-social craving. And indeed. This is what you see in animals and human. If you What's called acutely isolate them, which is just a fancy scientific word of saying deprive them of social interactions in a short-term basis. They start engaging in pro-social behaviors. They start texting other people. They start out social interactions of different kinds. That makes perfect sense, right? But thought of from a different side, you could also imagine how well, if you're getting a social interaction with somebody on a daily or weekly basis and suddenly you remove that interaction. Well, then people might not care. They might just think, well, I'll get the interaction tomorrow or the next day or the next day because they're their stated much in the same way that the person who eats very regularly, if I say, well, I ate four hours ago, in Elite 8 hours later. No, big deal, but that's not what happened. There's a prediction that we are going to have certain types of interactions. And when those interactions don't happen, we replace that lack of interaction with a drive and a motivation to seek out social interaction and that drive and motivation. Is caused by rights should say is driven by dopamine released from that dorsal raffay. And so the takeaway is that when we lack social interaction that we expect, we become pro-social. However, if we are chronically socially isolated, meaning we don't have interactions with people for a long time. We become actually more introverted. This is separate from all of the tachykinin stuff that I talked about earlier or falling into states of chronic stress, but it's well-established now that in humans and animals. If you don't give them enough social interaction, they actually become antisocial. And so this is actually a little bit, like one might see with long-term fasting. Okay, I give example of eating every 4 hours. Now, look at the parallel example of somebody who's been fasting, perhaps, for 2 or 3 days. If they are expecting to eat and then the meal doesn't arrive. They are not necessarily going to immediately. Try and seek out food and that's a little bit counterintuitive. You would have thought. Well, they haven't eaten in a very long time. They're going to be very motivated to seek out food, but no, they are accustomed to fasting. Similarly, the social homeostasis circuit Works in a way such that when we don't have social interactions for a very long time, we start to lose our craving for social interaction. Let's look at the social stasis circuit through the lens of what is commonly called introversion and extraversion. Typically, when we hear about introverts, we think about the quiet person at the party or the person that doesn't want to go out at all. We think about it. Text Roberta somebody who's really social of the so-called social butterfly to enjoy. Social interactions is really chatty. It's kind of Life of the Party type person. That's the cliche or the kind of pop psychology cliche, but actually in the psychology literature, that's not really the way it holds up. Many people who appear introverted or actually extroverted the quiet person in a party. Could be an extrovert, except that, they just don't talk very much. The characteristic of an extrovert, is somebody that gets energy or feels good from social interactions. The store to get a lift. And we can predict that, that lift occurs, because of some release of dopamine within their brain and body is evidence for that neuroimaging studies support that other forms of your biological now. So, support that as well. We can also imagine that the person who's talking a lot and somebody who is very extroverted, but often times people who talk a lot for their work, or there's somebody who is very social, when you interact with, that person gets back to their car and is absolutely depleted, and exhausted by that interaction, or also sort of social interactions. So we really can't predict whether or not, somebody is an introvert or an extrovert simply based on their behavior. It's really more of an internal subjective label. However, if we look at introversion in extra virgin through this lens of the social homeostatic set point and we think about dopamine as this molecule that drives motivation to seek out social interactions. What we can reasonably assume is that introverts are people that when they engage in certain forms of social interaction, either the amount of dopamine that's released is greater than it is in an extrovert. That's right. I said greater than it is, and so they actually feel quite motivated. But also Satisfied by very brief or we could say, sort of sparse social interactions. They don't need a lot of social engagement to feel sated. Again, the parallel example, be hunger. This would be somebody who doesn't need to eat much in order to feel satisfied, Razzi. Extrovert. We can reasonably assume releases less dopamine in response to an individual's social interaction. And so they need much more social interaction in order to feel filled up by that interaction and indeed, this is supported by the neurobiological Imaging studies. It's useful to think about people may be yourself. Maybe other people, you know, how much social interaction they need in order to bring the social homeostasis into balance. Now, there's the fourth component of the social homeostasis circuit that I mentioned before that the prefrontal cortex. The prefrontal cortex is involved in thinking and planning an action. And as extensive connections with areas of the brain, like the hypothalamus which is responsible for a lot of motivated drives. It also has connections with the various reward centers of the brain. And you can act as kind of an accelerator, meaning it can encourage more electrical activity of of other brain centers or as a brake on those brain centers. Really good example, of a trivial one in the context of today's discussion, but it's a Concrete one. So I'll use it would be. And how many people out there use cold showers? As a way to stimulate metabolism, and build up resilience in the sort of thing. If you get into a very cold shower, and you feel as if you want to get out, but you force yourself to stay in. You're forcing yourself to stay in because your prefrontal cortex is placing some subjective label on that experience. Either. You're doing it for a certain benefit, or you got a timer and you're using the timer as the regulator of how long you're going to stay in space, are overriding reflexes. And that's the main function of the prefrontal cortex. But as I mentioned earlier, the, prefrontal cortex components that wire into the social homeostasis circuit are responsible for evaluating where you are in a given higher Keith and that affords, you a ton of flexibility in terms of the types of social interactions that you can engage in and whether or not you're going to spend time with certain people or not whether or not you're going to engage in a disengage. What do I mean by this? Well, let's say you're an extroverted person. You're somebody that likes a lot of social interaction, and you get a lot of dopamine release on hole from a lot of social interaction too, maybe one interaction with a teller at the supermarket isn't really going to give you much dopamine, but going to a party will give you more dopamine until you seek out these these larger social interaction. Whatever you might go to a party where somebody says something or you see somebody there that you much prefer not to see and therefore you decide to leave. The deciding to leave is regulated by that prefrontal cortex component. So, it's important understand that just because there's a homeostatic circuit that involves areas like the amygdala and the hypothalamus in these deep brain regions. Like the dorsal Rafi, as a human being you have flexibility over your social interactions, and that flexibility. Arise from the prefrontal circus. So there's a ton of subjective nature to it. There's a lot of context to it. So while there are some predictable elements of the circuits, they are not simply what we would call plug and chug. You have flexibility. You are able to say, you know, I love parties but I really don't want to go to that party because I'm so is there or I very much don't like going across town in traffic, but I'm going to do it today because a certain collection of people or perhaps a certain individual will be at that particular party. Answer the prefrontal cortex again is what allows you that subjective ruling or ruling over? What would otherwise just be reflexes. So now I'd like to drill a little bit deeper into this incredible neural structure. That is the dorsal Raffi, nucleus and the small collection of neurons. The dopamine neurons of the dorsal raffay because while it's a small collection, they are very powerful. Loneliness has been defined by the great psychologist. John cacioppo as the distress that results from discrepancies between ideal and receive social relationships. Let me repeat that loneliness is not just being isolated loneliness as he defines. It is the distress that results from discrepancies between ideal and receives social relationships. It's when we expect things to be one way and they're actually another way and which way we expect them to be and which way they turn out, again is highly subjective. What you expect from friendship and what other people expect from Friendship to be entirely different. But the circuit that underlies friendship bonding is exactly the same. And it is this dorsal, Ralph a nucleus and the dopamine neurons in that necklace. That underlie the bond. That is so true friendship and all types of social Bond. There's a key finding in the literature. The title of this paper is dorsal RAF. A dopamine neurons. Represent. The experience of social isolation is a paper from kateyes Lab. The first author is Matthew's Julian Matthews. Be specific. What they did is they were able to selectively activate, the dopamine neurons in the dorsal, Raffi, nucleus. And when they did that, they induced a loneliness. Like State know. How did they know? It was a loneliness like steak the new because it motivated the seeking out of social connections. This is the kind of social hunger that I was referring to before. We're as when the dopamine neurons of the dorsal raffay are inhibited. Meaning their activity has quieted that suppress, aloneliness State. That's a little counterintuitive. Right? It's a group of neuron that when activated makes you feel lonely. And when this printer is not activated it suppresses loneliness, but if you think about it, that's exactly the kind of circuit that you would want in order to drive social behavior. When you're feeling lonely, dopamine is released and it causes you to go out and seek social interactions when this brain area has enough social interaction. Trainer is don't have enough social interactions between enough social interactions have happen that the neurons in the brain are shut down their production of dopamine. Well, the loneliness state turns off. So what we think of as loneliness as this big kind of dark cloud or You know, fog in our psychological landscape and to me that's really changes the way that we think about loneliness and that we think about social interactions. There's so much subjective Landscapes and loneliness as an end to social interactions, but at the end of the day, what it really is is that we are all social animals to some extent or another and we all crave social interactions to some extent or another, although the extent will vary depending on where you are in the introversion extraversion Continuum, and it isn't that the other aspect of the study that was really important, get back to that issue of hierarchy. And social rank. They found is that depending on where you see yourself in the social. The dopamine neurons in the RAF, a will lead to one consequence or another meaning moving toward social interactions or moving away from them. So the whole system is set up so that you have a ton of flexibility and control over social interactions. So just a couple of key points and actionable, takeaways based on the information I've offered up until now If you think of yourself as an introvert. It's very likely that you get a lot of dopamine from a few or minimal social interactions as if you're an extrovert, contrary to what. You might think social interactions are not going to flood your system with dopamine. They actually are going to lead to less dopamine release than it would for an introvert. And therefore, you're going to need a lot more social interactions in order to feel filled up by those interactions. I've been trying a lot of parallels between this social seating for avoiding social isolation and hunger. But is that really the case? And could it be that there are actually interaction between the different drives? Meaning could social isolation or the desire to seek out social interactions, actually relate to the hunger system and vice versa. And indeed the answer is yes. We don't have fifty different homeostatic system and fifty different neurochemicals to underlie our drive to Our drive for romantic interactions hour drive for friendship interaction. We have essentially one maybe two and they all funnel into the same system and there's a beautiful paper that illustrate, some of the crossover between these different homeostatic drives. The title of the paper is a cute social isolation evoked. Mid been craving response is similar to hunger. Is it from Rebecca Sax's, Lab at MIT Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Dr. Kata is also an author on this paper. The paper was published in Nature Neuroscience. It's a really terrific paper. Just a Briefly summarize what they did. They took people that were categorized as socially connected healthy human adult's. With either people that are used to pretty frequent social interactions. And they socially isolated them for about 10 hours and they had no opportunity to access social media, email fiction reading even and certainly didn't have the opportunity to interact with people face-to-face. So what does did is it increase social craving first objective lead, the people said that they were now craving social interactions and then they did brain Imaging in response to images of people. People, interacting food flowers, other types of stimuli some of the stimuli, are these images that we call them stimuli, but their images really had a lot of social engagement going on in them. Others did not someone had a lot of faces showing others did not and as you might suspect there was activation of many of the brain areas that we talked about earlier dorsal Ralph a nucleus and other trainer is associated with your neurons. When the socially isolated people, viewed social cues, people interacting faces and so on and less. So for things like flowers, However, they also had increased responses to images of food, which is interesting and actually is consistent with the literature that when people are socially isolated. They often will start eating more, or they will change the nature of the foods that they eat. Now, we think of that is Comfort foods are soothing oneself through through eating rather than social interaction as a kind of apology. But while it might not be healthy, depending on the context in the person, it's really important understand that, that the reason that happens is because we have a common circuit and that, the system, meaning the person is actually craving dopamine release. They don't. Consciously know, this is all so consciously carried out, but the craving dopamine released and if they can't get it from social interactions as they normally would, they'll start speaking it from food? Now, they did an important reverse experiment as well, where they had subjects go on 10 hours of food fast, and now, these were not people that were familiar with fasting. They weren't doing intermittent. They were eating more typical meal schedules. And so that created increased hunger, Etc. But it also increased their appetite if you will or social interactions. And so the important Point here is that there's a common biology. There's a common circuitry that underlies homeostatic, craving of things that maintain us as individuals and as a species and it really play social interactions as right up there in the list of things that we consider so vital for our survival. And for our health things like food, water, social interaction, sit within a top-tier amongst each other and they use the same common circuitry dorsal Ralph a dopamine neurons in addition to other structures in order to create this drive to speak out certain types of stimuli. Now, this is a very reductionist view of social bonding. I realize that but it's important to realize that while we place all the subjective contest. Oh, I miss this person or You know where I really would like to avoid that person. At the end of the day. It really all funnels into a system. Whereby a single neurochemical is either being released and motivating us to seek out more of a particular type of interaction or has not released. And therefore we are perfectly comfortable. Staying exactly. Where we are. As I say this, some of you were probably thinking, that's probably what happens when you fall in love, and indeed, that's the case when people enter romantic relationships that to them are very satisfying. There's this. You know, that the theory is that the last anywhere from six days to six months, although some people report that this feeling can, last many, many years, even Decades of just feeling completely filled up, in Faded by the experience of being with that person so much. So that cravings for food are reduced cravings. For sleep are reduced. There's all sorts of activities and things that go along with new romantic Partnerships that take up time. That might get in the way of things like sleep or things like food, but the point is that Dopamine is the final common pathway by which we seek out things and we end up feeling as if we are satisfied by certain types of interactions. Now similarly if you've ever been isolated for a long. Of time, your focus might have shifted to what you're going to eat, while you're going to cook for dinner. In a much more heightened way the importance of those sensory stimuli in those types of interactions and indeed The Taste, the food itself expanse. So normally, when we are in Social relationships that are ones that are familiar to us, we have a balance of these different drive, but when one particular Drive takes over, and we are very focused on it because they all funnel into the same circuitry. There really isn't the seeking out a certain types of behaviors like food. So, you can when we're newly in love. Now, that doesn't mean that food won't taste good to us so that we don't think it emptied. Their experiments have been done. Where is people have just fallen in love? The taste of a strawberry can just be incredible. The other effect of dopamine is that it changes the way that we interpret sensory stimuli. Detectors actually changed when we are in heightened states of dopaminergic, activity or drive. Basically, what this means is that thing seemed better than they would when we have leftover mean in our system. The point here is that there's a lot of crossover. There's a lot of meshing together of different homeostatic drives that they don't exist in separate channels and it's only under conditions in which one particular, just got to drive. Instead of being played out to the extreme such as the example of falling in love that we tend to avoid or should have overlooked the other homeostatic drives. And that's because simply we're getting enough dopamine. We don't need any more up until now. I've been focused on the organizational logic of social bond in, which is really just nerd speak for how is it that we form bonds? Avoid Bond? Why do people seek out more or fewer bones than others at cetera? Now, I'd like to shift gears a bit. And focus on what are some things that we can do to encourage the formation of healthy Bond? There's a beautiful study that was published in cell reports cell, Press Journal, excellent journal, the title of this paper is conscious processing of narrative, stimuli synchronizes heart rate between individuals. I mention this on a previous podcast, but I'd like to mention it again and go to a little bit more because it points to specific actionable items that we can all use in order to enhance the quality and depth of social. Bonds of all kinds. The study involved, a very simple type of experiment. They had people listen to a story, everybody in the study. Listen to the same story, but they listen to that story at different times and in different locations. So different people same story and they measure things like heart rate. They measure breathing Etc. What was the motivation for doing this? But there's a showing that our physiology things like our heart rate are breathing our skin conductance, median amount of sweating. Can be synchronized between individuals, and that synchronization can occur according to a variety of different things. There been studies that have people look at one another and they look and actually see that their pupils size of their eyes starts to synchronize. People's breathing can synchronize people's body temperatures can even start something for nausea at least shifts in body temperature. Can synchronize. One person gets cooler. The other person gets cooler. A lot of this is subconscious. Some of it can be detected by conscious to use like flushing of the skin or actually seeing someone but actually the pupil reflexes are really good example where to buy except for rare cases in certain highly trained individuals. Most people can't control their people reflexes in a very deliberate way. If it's truly a reflex. It's an autonomic reflex. There's a lot of picture showing that With in small, groups are two people. These physiological signals can be synchronized with this study found was that when people listen to the same story, but it different times their heart rate start to synchronize. This is incredible because people are listening to the story at different times, but the gaps between their heartbeats becomes very stereotype nap, almost precisely on to one another, that's incredible. Now, we also know from an extensive literature that the quality and perceive depth of a social Bond, correlates very strongly with how much physiological synchronization there is between individuals. In other words. When your bodies feel the same, you tend to feel more bonded to somebody else. And so, this whole thing is a, rather circular argument. When you feel closer to somebody else, your physiology synchronize, and the reverse is true as well. When your physiology to other people. This is what I call the concert phenomenon. If you ever go to see your favorite band, or you go to a concert that you particularly love you, often look over at somebody and you'll see them enjoying the same thing and they're often in a similar State as you are able to sort of like favorite song comes on and you actually feel connected to that person. You feel like you're obviously there's a shared experience but there's also a shared physiological. After that experience. And so this can happen in math with large groups of people or it can happen just between two individuals and as the study points out can actually happen between individuals without them actually interacted with one another. When the story they are listening to is the anchor where the driver of their physiology. This really points to the fact that the body and the brain are reciprocally connected. Yes, indeed, what we think, what we hear, what? We feel drives our physiology, our heartbeat, our respiration etcetera, but our heartbeat and respiration, also are influencing our state of mind. And in this case, it's encouraging certain types of social bonds. When our heart rates are synchronized, you can leverage this. How can you leverage this? Well, let's take any upcoming example of the holidays. There's a sort of a joke, I think was wrong. For the Buddhist philosophy. Type, that said, If You Think You're enlightened go visit your parents and I think what he was referring to, Is that some people not all people have a challenging relationships, with their parents were going to talk about child parent attachment and interactions in a few minutes, but, you know, some people have a wonderful relationship to both their parents and more power to them. I think that's, that's wonderful. We should all be so lucky. Many people have challenged relationships with their parents or they've a great relationship with their parents, but their parents know. Or they know how to drive that Dart right into that particular soft piece of psychological flash by saying the just the slightest thing or even by raising their eyebrow or rolling. Their eyes are the tone in which they do something. This is also true between siblings. I think many of you can think of examples where this is true. Many people when they interact with others. Expect that the mirror interaction with the other person is going to create the sense of bonding and often that is the case. For instance, if people are involved in an intimate disclosure, if people enjoy their each other's company so much that just the mere sight of somebody evokes, great feelings and it's mutual that often can happen. But in many types of social interactions, it's not the direct interaction with that person. That makes us feel close to them. But rather its shared experience and shared experience is shared physiology. That's the point. I'm trying to make it by way of this study about conscious processing of narrative, stimuli synchronizes, heart rate, the different individual. So for instance, if you have a somewhat challenged or somewhat, let's call it a slight friction in getting close to with somebody or it can be a challenging interaction often times. It's very useful to focus. Put on some other common narrative a movie off of 9 people watch a game together. Actually, there's a lot of critique that people or families will focus outward too much on external event, but these external events can be observing, the grandchild and how wonderful they are serving the meal, and how wonderful it is. Or as we commonly seen in various Traditions. There is a story that for P Diddy here, early in the upcoming holidays. There's a Christmas stories are there themes in Tradition and those things and traditions anchor, a number of different aspects of our psychology. They're really wonderful. They thread Through the Ages really and allow us to link our own experiences up with previous generations and experiences. But in addition to that, they synchronize our physiologies. And so sometimes it can be useful rather than expecting others to shift our physiology in the way that we wish or us shifting their physiologies in the way that we wish. And then expecting some Bon tooth mushroom out of that and some beautiful. Focus on some external stimulus to focus on something that will synchronize. The physiologies of both people that can act as a bridge in order to establish social Bond. And this is not a hacker, a workaround for making terrible relationships, good. This is actually at the seat of what we come away from a social interaction with as feeling. Now, that was a really wonderful time often. A really wonderful time can be by virtue of the specific things that were said, we're the specific things that one engaged in but more often than not the final common pathway. We should say, our great experiences, a great physiological experience, and a shared physiological experience. I have a short anecdote that relates to this have an older sibling and she's to say that when she was in college the best dates that she ever went on tour dates where she was asked to go out and listen to music. She pointed out. However, that often time of the guys, that would ask her out, would take her to Jazz Club. She always had the theory that they would ask her to jazz clubs because of jazz clubs. Typically, you would Down. And then, she had to conclude that, I couldn't dance. My sister likes to dance. And so anytime, someone actually had the nerve to take her dancing, those turned out to be particularly. Let's just say, satisfying dates in relationships. At least, it lasted longer. That's all I know about them. That's all I want to know about them, that she's my sister after all, but the theory behind whoever was asking her out on these dates with, with the right one, which is that, if you want to bond with somebody, you create a common physiological response to a common and shared experience, and that is often a good entryway into establishing whether or not question whether or not, there can be common physiological experience between two, individuals up. Until now, we've been talkin about social bonding through the lens of neural circuits that are already established. However, early in the episode. I mentioned that these very neural circuits are responsible for social bonding in adult forms of attachment. Otherwise established during development. One of the more important and I think exciting areas of early attachment as it relates to adult attachment, come to us from the work of Alan Shore. Alan Shore, spelled a l l a n Shore. Schore is a psychoanalyst. Deep understanding of neurobiology of attachment both in childhood and adulthood and he's focused a lot on differences between right-brain and left-brain forms of attachment. Now, in a early episode of the human Lab podcast. I touched him to the fact that most of what's discussed in the general public in for pop psychology and even in some general biology courses about right brain vs. Left brain in one side of the brain, being more emotional and the other side be more rational is completely wrong. Okay, most of what I see out there is actually backwards to the way things actually work. And while there is some what we called, lateralization. A function. Meaning certain brain functions are handled by neurons on one side of the brain or the other. The idea that one side of your brain is emotional on the other side of your brain, is rational is just not simply not true. However, the work of Alan Shore points, to some very concrete. Neural circuits that do have a lateral zacian by its meaning. They are more right-brained and left-brained or more left brain. And right brain that underlies certain forms of attachment between child and parent in particular, child and mother and that the right rein isms. If you will, and left-brain isms for attachment get played out again, and again, in our forms of attachment is adult, but like to talk about that work briefly now because I think it really points to a number of important features of how we establish bomb and the different routes to establishing bonds. So within the field of psychoanalysis, there's a long-standing discussion, of course about the Soco. Unconscious or subconscious the things that we are not aware of. And I think there's growing evidence pointing to the fact that at least one major component of the subconscious or the unconscious is the so-called autonomic nervous system. The autonomic nervous system is the portion of our nervous system that controls are reflexive breathing, our heart rate, our skin conductance pupil size. It's the aspect of our nervous system that makes us more alert or more calm. It's the so-called sympathetic meaning for alertness or parasympathetic branch of the autonomic nervous system, parasympathetic for more calming, responses, doctor, Shores work, and the work of others is now showing is that early infant parent in particular. Infant mother attachment involves a coordination or synchronization of these, right? Brain circuits and these left brain circuits as they relate relate, scuse me to the autonomic nervous system. How does this play out? Will it plays out where early on as an infant? When you're born? You're truly helpless. You can't feed yourself. You can't warm yourself. You can't change yourself and you certainly can't ambulate walk anywhere to get the things that you need, all of those functions. All of those needs rather are met by your primary caretaker. Typically, that's the mother father's, of course player also, but because of breastfeeding or even bottle-feeding, typically mother's play a more prominent role. I realize there are exceptions, but that's the general rule. There are no brain Imaging studies examining the brains of infant n. The brains of mothers as they interact. And showing that the physical contact between the two, the breathing of the mother and child, the heart rate of the mother and child. And indeed, the pupil size of the mother and child are actually actively getting coordinated. In other words. The mother is regulating the infant's autonomic nervous system primarily and the infant is also regulating the mother's autonomic nervous system. A small crew from a baby or I cry, which is a stress cry from the table would definitely regulate the autonomic nervous system of the mother. This whole right brain system is Directly tapped into the so-called oxytocin system, and we'll talk more about oxytocin in a moment. Oxytocin. The gun being this peptide hormone is involved in social bonds of all kinds. But that, at least in early childhood is very closely associated with milk. Let down in milk production. There's actually a lot of stimulation of oxytocin released in the mother by nursing itself. No, physical contact with the nipple and bike, the contact of skin between baby and mother and their specificity there. It's not just any baby that can invoke the most amount of oxytocin released from the mother. However. There are examples. We're just holding a child, will evoke oxytocin released in the non-parent or somebody other than the parents. I think, most people experience that that's the new puppy or new baby phenomenon. To the Deep puppies can evoke oxytocin release as well. The point is not that oxytocin is only released in response to the primary relationship where the mother and their child. But rather that the amount of oxytocin scales with how closely related one is to that particular child and and vice versa. So there's oxytocin release occurring in both the child and the mother. So this right brain system is an emotional but autonomic system. It is below are some below our conscious detection as we get older. There's another system that starts to come into play in parent-child interactions. And this also comes into play in sibling interactions and so forth, and that's the left brain system as described by Alan Shore. In this isn't about emotion versus rationality. This is about autonomic vs. More conscious forms of bonding. So on the left brain circuits side, there is evidence War based on their studies, but also animal studies to support the idea that on the left brain side of things. There is a processing more of narratives that are very concrete logical narrative. Okay? And again, I have to zoom out in and just really Tamp down the idea that it's not that one side of the brain is emotional on the other side, is rational, but rather that these two things are happening in parallel. And that there's a bit of a dominance for the left brain, circuitry to be involved in the kinds of bonding that are associated with prediction and reward. So, good example, would be reading to A Child every night. Sitting there and reading, you know, I can recall reading to my niece and seeing her parents read to her and she had no clue whatsoever with what they were saying. Because she, well, at least I don't know, but she certainly couldn't speak but she liked looking at the pictures and it was a very predictable sort of interaction. It was okay. Out, come the books. It was it usually hears the bath, then there's the pajamas, then there's the lights, go down. Then out comes the book and then there's the interaction between parent and child which of course, usually also involves physical contact. So it's not the right brain system in the left brain system. Operating separately their operating in parallel, but that's not a prediction for kids. Like to be read to is generally me to buy this left brain system, and this carries on as children, get older and his parents take on an evolved, their parenting rolls. It's very apparent that healthy social bonding between children and caretaker. Relies on the fact that both this right brain system in the left brain system are engaged that there's a synchronization of autonomic function, meaning a joining together, an actual somatic feeling and that there's a synchronization of experience that's more about some outward or external stimulus like reading a book or watching a show together, enjoying some common experience of a meal together. And of course, as children get older, they're able to access more and more cognitively. Sophisticated things. You can watch a movie with them and they'll make predictions about which characters are going to show up. For instance. You can take them to a concert and they can appreciate the concert or play in that concert and they ate appreciate that they're being appreciated. Okay. So there's a million different. There's an infinite number of examples here, but the idea is that there two parallel circuits that are important for establishing Bond and that this is set up very early on in childhood and that it's neither emotional nor rational but both now both of these circuits. Tap into the circuitry that we talked about earlier where dopamine is released and molecules like serotonin, which again is a modulator more associated with feelings of warmth comfort and satisfaction with our immediate surroundings and possessions. Rather than speaking of things and motivation to drive to go look for things as is the case with dopamine. So they're still interactions with those system, but the work of Allen has stimulated. A lot of interest in. What are the circuits that underlie these autonomic bonding this matching of heart rate and breathing? And what are the neural circuits that underlie this? Bonding or the synchronization of experience on the kind of left brain side. The reason I find this model. So attractive is that? It's very clear that healthy child parent, bonds are established but not by one or the other of these right-brained or left-brained systems provide both and there isn't enough time to go into it right now, but some of you are probably familiar with this idea of anxious attached versus avoidant. Attachment has there's a kind of dissociative attached model of infant parent bonding. Just briefly, what's becoming clear from the neurobiological Imaging studies is that as people start to it, Advance into adolescence and adulthood and well into their elderly years. The same circuits that were active and established in childhood are repurposed for other forms of attachment, and that to have truly complete bonds with other individuals, but in particular, with romantic Partners, it's important that there be both synchronization of physiology and synchronization of these more. I guess we could call the more rational or predictive type circuits so we can leverage this information. We can start to think about what sorts of bonds to us. Feel very enriching and very complete. We know that we can have for instance an emotional connection with somebody but we can also have a Cognitive Connection with somebody as many colleagues with whom I have deep intellectual connection and convergence with, I want to say that I have deep emotional connection with most of them, a few of them. Yes, but most of them know, Others in my life. For instance. I have a deep emotional connection to but not a lot of cognitive connection. To a good example, would be the connection that I had with my Bulldog, do unfortunately passed away. But Costello, we had a very close emotional connection, right? It was based on Tashi was based on our walks. It was based on fun. It was very autonomic. Rarely discussed. If ever what we were doing, we had a felt relationship as opposed to a cognitive relationship and while I'm sort of half kidding about that, as an example of a really good example. It was a very real Bond. And in fact, just as a brief anecdote. I can remember when Costello as a puppy and I was entirely responsible for his well-being. I like any parent of any infant. I lost my appetite for those few weeks when I was house-trained again, and I seemed to lose all ability to process any cognitive information. I was also sleep deprived, but I was entirely focused on the autonomic bond that we were forming nothing. That eventually was established pretty quickly. Basically, I went on to just basically feed him walk him and do everything for him. And we had a wonderful relationship. Now, it's very clear that we're talking about here is a form of empathy. Empathy is the ability to feel or at least sink. We feel what others feel? Because again, as my colleague and the great bioengineering psychiatrist at Stanford called ice, or off has said, he was a guest on this podcast. We really don't know how other people feel. We just get the sense that perhaps we are feeling the same thing over feeling something different and we infer we project what they might be thinking. Empathy is this sense that we are sensing what other people are sensing? Okay. There's no real way to verify that except if your measuring physiology so you could get some insight into that in The Clinical Psychology and the neurobiological literature. Now, it's understood that there is both emotional empathy like actually feeling what somebody is feeling and what is now called, cognitive empathy and empathy. Is this idea that we both see and experience something the same way at a mental level emotional? Empathy is this idea that, yes, I can feel what you feel at a visceral somatic or autonomic level and is absolutely clear that strong social bond between children and caretaker involved with emotional empathy, this autonomic function and cognitive empathy that. There's a mutual understanding of how the other person feels and how the other person thinks in order to be able to make predictions about what they're going to do. It's also very clear based on the emerging literature that romantic relationships, and to some extent friendships. Although it friendships have been explored a bit. Last in the literature that emotional empathy and cognitive empathy are both required in order to establish what we call a trusting social Bond and it's a beautiful experiments. Done, using neuroimaging of two individuals, playing a truck game. Then she a game where you try to predict the other person's Behavior, whether or not they will behave in a trustworthy way and these experiments tend to use real money. So there's actually something at stake and you can more or less predict whether or not somebody feels a lot of trust for somebody else and whether or not, they believe they will act in a trustworthy manner based on whether or not they have high levels of both cognitive empathy and emotional empathy. For those of you that are seeking to establish deeper bonds war, bonds of any kind. It's important that you think about, synchronization of bodily States. We talked about that earlier and synchronization of cognitive state. We on everything. In fact, often times people who feel very close to one another cognitively and emotionally argue about all sorts of things and disagree about a lot of things have probably know, I certainly know people and couples that seemed to bond through arguing, which is an interesting phenotype in the cell, but the point isn't that there be total convergence of opinion or stamps, but rather that we understand how the other field and we believe that they understand how we feel that we understand how the other person thinks and that they think that we understand how they think. So. It's a reciprocal Loop between two people that involves this cognition and involves emotion, and it's grounded as Doctor Shore, has pointed out in our earliest forms of attachment. And that makes perfect sense because the same store two circuits that are responsible for social homeostasis, the kind of right-brain and left-brain circuit Setter responsible for infant mother attachment and then later for more intellectual or predicted pipe attached. Between child and caregiver are the exact same circuits that we superimpose in all other types of relationships throughout the rest of our life. And I should just mention that for those of you that might be thinking that you had a less than satisfactory in since caretaker interaction or form of attachment. You are not alone. And in fact much of the work that doctor Shore focuses on is about how those early circumstances can be understood and rewired for the development of healthy adult attachment. And if you want to check out his work at these actually got a few YouTube videos out there. Again, it's Alan Shore spelled s c h, o, r e and love to get him as a guest on the podcast. No. Such as a book. It's called a right-brain Psychotherapy, and it's an excellent book. It's actually pretty accessible. Even if you don't have a background in biology or psychology. I found it to be very interesting there. A lot of excellent references. And again, if you're listening doctor Shore, you know, Alan Shore would love to get you on the podcast. One of the key themes to understand about biological processes is that they often work on short time, scales and longer time scales, and up. Until now, we mainly been talking about the stuff that happened on short timescale. So the kind of synchronization of heart rate for Activation of a given set of neuron that dump some dopamine and causes us to seek out more social interaction or less for instance. But every biological circuit and function needs to have long-standing effects as well. And typically, when you're thinking about long-standing effects in the brain and body, you start looking towards the hormone system, not always the case, but more often than not neurotransmitters into a modulator there pretty quick, where as hormones have longer lasting effects. In fact, a lot of hormones can actually travel to the nucleus of a cell and actually change which genes are expressed. So if ever there was a Hormone or hormone-like molecule, that's associated with social bonding. It's oxytocin and oxytocin his of interest in the popular press. I don't know why that is, but perhaps it's because of all the incredible things that oxytocin is associated with, and it is indeed. A lot of things do. For instance. Oxytocin is released in the brain and binds to receptors in different locations, in the body. And the moment you hear different locations in the body receptors. You should think. Well, it could have lots of different effects. And indeed, it does oxytocin is involved in orgasm. It's involved in Social recognition. That's right. When you see people that you consider your people, your team, your group, your friends oxytocin is released. Even if you don't come into physical contact with them, Oxytocin is also associated with pair-bonding. The feeling that they are your person and that you are. There person has a common language people use. It's also associated with honesty, leave, or not their experiments that show that if people receive a oxytocin, through an insulation spray that they will be more honest and forthcoming about certain things, and the oxytocin system and variants. In the oxytocin system have also been associated with autism and various autism spectrum disorders. So, there's a huge range of behaviors and the body that do different things. However, there's some very consistent effects of oxytocin that are worth just listing off, and then I'm going to talk about two separate Pathways by which oxytocin can manifest its effects, and how you can I should regulate oxytocin in ways that are interesting and perhaps useful, as well. First of all, oxytocin is involved in the milk. Let-down reflex lactation. This makes perfect sense. I need to be a q by which the suckling on the nipple of the infant causes the release, or let down of milk and milk let-down and lactation is controlled by prolactin. Another hormone that also oxytocin, oxytocin is also involved in uterine contraction during childbirth. It's involved in cervical dilation to allow the baby to pass out of the birth canal. So it's involved in induction of breastfeeding and of Labor, which is remarkable and especially remarkable given that in males release in some male animals and in some male humans. And I do want to say some and I'll get back to me bald, in the erection response. It can be involved in the orgasm response, in both males and females over there. There's a very interesting different, there's a little bit of controversy about this, but it does appear that in females. Sexual stimulation and orgasm cause the release of oxytocin or as in male sexual stimulation, does not cause the release of oxytocin. But rather a different molecule vasopressin is triggered by sexual stimulation, but orgasm does trigger the release of oxytocin, two males, but with a delay of about 30 minutes, why? That is, in the specific function of that is not clear, but it does seem that oxytocin is involved in the sexual response, in both males and females, the main types of interactions that release, oxytocin at high levels are, first of all, that the interaction between individuals, that see each other as very closely associated, right? So, a infant and mother are very closely associated with a knife in adopted infant or not often times. They are in close contact often times. They are from the very body of the other. And so, the amount of the amplitude of oxytocin relief, tens to scale without closely associated individuals. One baby can evoke oxytocin release and vice-versa from the mother, physical contact even more. So in romantic Partners, physical contact, even the sight of a picture of a partner can invoke oxytocin release and sexual desire. Also trust. So there's this whole collection of psychological and physiological things that are packaged into the oxytocin system. It's not just a one-way system, know, a lot of people out there, have written to me asking about inhalants oxytocin asking. Whether or not that can actually increase the depth the rate of pair-bonding, and there does seem to be some evidence for that. Now, I think in most places, oxytocin is prescription, although it might be over the counter and others. I don't know. You have to check far as I know. You can't just go out and buy oxytocin nasal spray, although you may be able to forgive me. I'm naive to that point. But it's interesting to note that some drugs that are being used in clinical trials for things like trauma and are also used in play. Call Therapeutic settings, for increasing, bonding in particular. MDMA also called ecstasy increase, dopamine and serotonin. We know this dopamine and serotonin have Zach's number effects throughout the brain and body that a fuck about some of them today and another podcast, but one of the Lesser appreciated effects of MDMA is that it causes huge increases. Massive increases in the amount of oxytocin that's released into the brain and body and MDMA such a psycho therapy while still illegal, as far as I know. It's early in the United States, but in most places throughout the world is being explored in clinical trials. Not just for trauma. Not just for depression, not just for eating disorders, but also for re-establishing, what seemed to be fractured or challenge bond between romantic partner's. Well, most of the attention has been focused on the dopaminergic and serotonergic aspects of the MDMA response. It's clear to me based on my read of the literature that the enormously elevated. Oxytocin that occurs during the consumption of MDMA, is part of the reason why people experience during the MDMA section and post MDMA section a much greater degree and depth of kingship or feeling a connection with that person and it's important to point out that the feeling of connection is of the autonomic type that I was referring to earlier. I'll Allen Shores work that is not of the always, think about things, the exact same way. We agree on everything. Now, it's more of that their physiologies are synchronized so much so that even in individuals within a couple where one does a therapeutic session and the other does not, they still both feel quite more bonded to the other. Now often times in the clinical Therapeutics heading to both members of a couple or romantic partnership, whatever that form it may take or consuming MDMA and then there by Experiencing elevated oxytocin, and this enhanced sense of bonding. And again, it's dysautonomic bonding, but it's so powerful. Meaning, the oxytocin response is so powerful that it doesn't even require that both individuals experience this huge inflection, that oxytocin. And that's because one person physiology is influencing the other. And oxytocin, is this kind of bridging signal that occurs in both nervous system? Synchronizes things like heartbeat, obviously, it's associated with touching. So people are touching or people engaging the sorts of behaviors that I mentioned earlier. That can increase oxytocin further, that's going to further increase the depth of the bond, but the point here is that there's actually a hormonal glue between individual. Okay, infant and mother friends team-mates romantic partners and so on, and that form. Oh no, glue is oxytocin. Now people vary in the extent to, which they feel or have the capacity to feel bonded to anyone and it is now, Generally understood that some of that variation might depend on variations in oxytocin receptors or Gene. Polymorphisms for oxytocin genes can have a number of different sequences. The numbers are nucleotide sequences, won't come to the genetics right now. Asian cheese and feed them teeth and various combinations. Are what make up? A gene are transcribed into RNA, RNA is translated into proteins that affect self, the oxytocin Gene and codes for oxytocin and variance in that Gene change the amount, and function of oxytocin. There's a really interesting study published this last year in a relatively new Journal that journal has a kind of unusual name. That's Healey on. I think it's Yuliana not helion, but helion heliyon, this is cell Press Journal. As far as I can tell. It's a very solid Journal. Certainly the cell press, label is very stringent. Find this paper. Is entitled the relation between oxytocin receptor. Gene, polymorphisms, which just means changes and in jeans or variations in jeans, adult attachment and Instagram. Sociability exploratory analysis, the wild study, but I like the study very thorough. First author last name carollo carollo. What they found was that by analyzing the genetics of different individuals who are on social media and looking at how many people those individuals follow and how many people follow them and what they come up with his so-called social desirability index, they were able to correlate in a very straightforward way. That people that carry certain variance in the oxytocin, and oxytocin receptor genes actually seek out more online, social Instagram interaction. So, some people I know I will name their name, only follow you. Anywhere from zero to six accounts, other people, follow thousands of account and they take the ratio of how many accounts people follow versus. How many followers they have arguably, not a perfect measure, but a nice one. In the sense that you can do this in a completely unbiased way with many many thousands of subjects. And then they were able to get genomic analysis from a number of these subjects. And it turns out that people who have let's say higher levels of oxytocin function or potential levels of oxytocin function actively seek out more social interactions on social media. So this I think represents an important first in the area of how social media and data from social media are trying to merge with biological data. In terms of predicting, how avidly people will seek out social interactions of an online pipe and nowadays. We care a lot about how online we are connected, but we're not really, what is it? We're communicating, but we're not connected or the connect. Things are real. I think we're going to need to revisit that. While I'm certainly a believer in the idea that face-to-face Communication in common interactions with people. Danny in the same space were playing sports together. Enjoy music together and join meals together as vitally important. There's an entire generation or several generations of people that are coming up much of their social interaction has been online and if you think about it all the things that we've spelled out earlier about common mental narrative, just left brain system, allowing short autonomic bonding or synchronization of heartbeats. According to Common stories. All that is happening in online social interactions. When a thousand of us, look at the exact same Instagram post. Yes, we will have a thousand independent responses to that but chances are many of us. Have a similar or same response based on the data that we talked about earlier in synchronization of heartbeats. And so we are socially bonded with other people through social media and it's very apparent that the oxytocin system is playing some role in that. And if this, if we resume out makes perfect sense because again, Dopamine serotonin prolactin oxytocin. None of these systems were placed in us. Where are organized within us. In order to encourage specific and only specific types of social interactions. The one that we can say is absolutely critical is the child parent interaction, right? Because children simply can't take care of themselves. They need a caretaker. I should have said, caretaker not parent, but infants if they don't if they're not taking care of will die. But beyond that we have evolved or come to realize many different types of social interactions and online interactions. Nowadays are very, very common. I'm certainly involved in them. I'm guessing you're involved in them as well. We're involved in one right now. For example. The oxytocin system is absolutely threaded through and largely responsible for those types of social bonds as well. And incidentally, oxytocin is the name of the fifth song on Billie, eilish's second album happier than ever. So we covered a lot about the biology and indeed the neural circuitry in their chemistry and neuroendocrinology of social bonding. Make sure that I highlight the key features that go into any and all of your social bonds. First of all, all social bonds have the potential to include both what we called, emotional, empathy and cognitive empathy. And so, if you are interested in establishing and deepening social bonds of any kind, it's important that you put some effort toward this thing that we call emotional empathy, which is really about sharing autonomic experience, not depending on the relationship that will take on different contacts with appropriate than one. Type of bond, is not going to be appropriate in another type of bond. Physical contact. For instance, is appropriate for certain types of bonds and not, Brothers none the less emotional empathy and the synchronization of autonomic function heart rate breathing. Etcetera can be best accomplished by paying attention to external events. In particular, narrative, story, music and perhaps sports are other types of experience as an external stimulus to drive, synchrony of those internal States. The other aspect of forming, deep bond is cognitive empathy again. Cognitive empathy is not about agreeing on things or viewing things exact same way. It's about really gaining understanding of how somebody else thinks about something really paying attention to that. And then paying attention to how you think about and feel about something. So that's what Connie of empathy is empathy together. Are what, make up these really robust bonds of various kinds of introversion and extraversion? And I'd like to try and dismantle the common misperceptions about introversion extraversion because Look at the neural circuitry as you recall introverts are not people that don't like social interaction. It's just that they feel filled up or sated by less social interaction. Then would be an extra in. Because at least according to the social homeostasis circuit model. They actually get more dopamine from less social interaction. Okay. It's like somebody who stated by less amount of food. Okay? Doesn't mean they don't have the same appetite. It just means that they get more from Les whereas extroverts. Get less, dopamine released from an equivalent amount of social interaction. And of course, these aren't precise measurements. But on the whole extroverts, need more social interaction, more frequent more long-lasting, Etc, in order to achieve that dopamine threshold. Because again, dopamine is driving that craving of social interaction. And once it's met, then people don't feel like they have to seek social interaction as much. So, for those of you that feel as if you're an introvert or extrovert or that, no introverts and extroverts. It's not about how verbal people are. It's not about how much they seek out social interactions per say, it's about how much social interaction is enough. For the given person is not to Simply put a reductionist view on things that you already realized and new. But rather to give you some leverage points to understand. How is it that you form, social Bond? How is it that you might be challenging for me certain types of social Bond? And to think about entry points to both establishing and reinforcing, sokoban, a different kind. Hopefully it will also give you insight into why breakups weather be between friendships and romantic partner can be so painful. A breakup of any kind, involves both of breaking of that, emotional empathy, and that cognitive empathy. And indeed. It has a neurobiological informal underpin, right? We go into some sense, a social isolation, even if we're surrounded by other types of people, if one of our major sources of oxytocin or one of our major sources of dopamine, suddenly is not around. That is incredibly devastating to a nervous system and to borrow from the great psychologist and neurologist. Lisa Feldman parent, who says he know, we are not just individuals. We are nervous system, influencing other nervous systems and their nervous systems are influencing us. I think that's the right way to think about it. So it should come as no surprise. That breakups of various kinds are very challenging riddle. What I'd relied that break up either. Not somebody moving or an actual decision of one person to leave the relationship where both Etc on the more positive side. Largely biological, but to some extent psychological view of social bonding will also allow you to orient in this vast landscape that we call social bonds to understand why it is perhaps that you seek out so many online interactions. Maybe you have the oxytocin polymorphism that causes you to want. More follow more account, interact, more with people, Who knows. I'm also hoping that it will allow you to get a lens into how you can strengthen the social bonds that you want to strengthen. And to establish new social bonds that you want to establish. None of this is meant to manipulate or leverage social bonds that wouldn't otherwise form to the contrary. It's about identifying what are the specific routes by Which social bonds are created and allowing you. I hope to work with people that you feel challenged informing their social bonds with or maybe deciding to completely divorced from those social bonds entirely because there's absolutely no hope of ever forming emotional are cognitive empathy. I certainly knowledge that that could be the case too. So there's a light and a dark Zone to this. Entire thing that we call social bonding. What is not graded, but his absolute, as they say, is that social bonds are vitally important to us as a species whether or not they are at a distance over social media whether or not they are in close proximity, actual physical contact. Today would have really tried to illustrate is that there are common set of biological neurochemical and hormonal underpinnings to what we call social bonding. And so while it is complex and its objective, in the balls, the higher Keys, it involves our it is not infinitely complex. And in that sense, it is tractable. Hopefully, I've offered you some lead leavers or some entry points under which you can both understand and move toward social bond. That would be more satisfying and more gratifying for you. That's certainly one of the goals. The other one is it. Hopefully if you are clinician or simply the friend that people go to or the family member that people go to when they are challenged through various challenges and social bond that you can start to perhaps pass along some of the information as a way of people understanding what they're going through as they are breaking up but also as they are falling in love as they are forming attachments and as they are being challenged with attachment, that's my And especially as you head into the holidays and end of year, but also as it continues into 2022, I would hope that you would take this knowledge and apply it and any other ways that you feel are meaningful and adapted for you. If you're learning from anywhere enjoying this podcast, please subscribe to my YouTube channel. That really helps us in addition. Please put comment in the comment section on YouTube if you have them. And if you have suggestions for future podcast, guess that you like us to host on the government Lab podcast, please put those in the comments section is what we do. Eventually read, all the comments and Edition, please subscribe to the human Lab podcast on Apple and or Spotify and on Apple star review and a comment. If you like, he's also check out our sponsors mentioned at the beginning of the podcast. That's perhaps the best way to support this podcast and we have a patreon. It's patreon.com Andrew huberman. And there you can score the podcast at any level that you like. We do what? Supplements are necessary for everybody. Many people drive from Ennis benefit from them for things, like enhancing the depth and quality of sleep for things like Focus immune system, etcetera, you like to see the supplements that I take, you can go to form.com the letter used huberman. The reason we partnered with Thorn is because Thorn has the highest levels of stringency in terms of the quality of the ingredients that they include in their supplements and the Precision of the amount of the supplements that they include, this is not true for a lot of other supplement Brands out there. Thorn is partnered with the Mayo Clinic with all the major sports team. So there's tremendous confidence in their stringency. Again, if you go to thorne.com the letter U / huberman, you can see all the supplements that I take, you can get 20% off any of those supplements. And if you navigate deeper into the thorn site through that portal, you can also get 20% off any of the other supplements that Thorne make. If you're not already following a human live on Instagram and Twitter. Please do so on Instagram. I regularly teach short Snippets about neuroscience and Neuroscience related tools. Some of that information overlaps with what's covered on the podcast often. It does not. So, check this out. I can't really live on Instagram and on Twitter and last, but certainly not least. Thank you for your interest in science.
