Hi friends. Happy Wednesday or Thursday if you're watching over on YouTube. Hey, how are you doing? I hope you're having a wonderful day so far. My name is Bailey serían and this is the dark History Podcast. Whew, I need a theme song for dark history. Don't, I'm anywho, I'm here to talk about some dark ass history that we never learned in school or I should, at least say that. I never learned in school. If you're new here. Hi, welcome. Come. Take a seat by me. Don't be shy if you're And learning about people and events that your history books didn't cover in school. The maybe should have then you'll fit in right in here with us. Okay. Look today's story. It's uncomfortable. Okay, it's heartbreaking. It's just, it's set. It's awful. It's sad. There's, those are all the words. I can think of it, just doesn't make any sense. But with all of that being said, there's really like no sugarcoating this. This is what happened, and it's one more honest. And when we're transparent that we can learn and grow together, you know. But most of all not let history repeat itself. So let's set the scene. It's New Years Day 1923 and many people are waking up from celebrating the New Year. Some of them are still wearing a flapper dress or a suit tired from dancing. The night away in a jazz club, or maybe they're hung over from buying illegal drinks at a speakeasy. Yes. Oh, yes. It was still illegal to buy alcohol wild, right? Of course, though. That was more of like the upscale City Vibe. If you were in the country had little less. Pocket change to spend or were two straight edge to visit, like those kind of illegal joints. Then you probably had a quieter evening of staying at home and ringing in the new year with with your loved ones, you know, now 1923 in general President Warren G, Harding would die in office, the Yankee Stadium would be built in the Bronx and the original Hollywood sign would be built. Oh, yeah, Hollywood was originally called hollywoodland, but we could say that for another episode, babe. Before all of that, on the morning of January, first, nineteen, twenty three thirty year old James and his 22-year old wife, Fanny, Taylor woke up at a home and a town called Sumner, a neighboring community of Rosewood, Florida, that morning. James Taylor goes to work like he did any other day. But while James was at work, something happens to his wife Fanny. That boy, it just triggers a domino effect, a horrific domino effect. It leads to the Murders of innocent people, the destruction of a town and the displacement of an entire Community changing Rosewood forever who just sounds traumatic. I know because it is, welcome. Hi. This episode friends were going to be talking about the Rosewood Massacre. Have you heard of it? Yeah, exactly. Exactly. I didn't this one, just it completely blew. My mind is like why in the Waldo? Did we not learned about this in school? Correction? I can only speak for myself here. So, why in the Waldo did my history books? Not teach this Rosewood Massacre? Yeah. It happened. Let's discuss and learn together. What took place in 1923, Rosewood, Florida. Buckling, kitty cats. This is just what? Yeah, I'm great with words. Obviously. That's why I started a podcast. The beginning, great place. Start the town of Rosewood was established in the mid eighteen. Hundreds white families, had moved here prior to the Civil War and black landowner started to move in in the 1870s. It's located in the State of Florida and it's just nine miles east of the Gulf of Mexico. The name Rosewood. It came from the red cedar trees that were all over the land there. Fun fact, alert Boo. Boo. Boo. Did you know that when you cut open a red cedar tree, the cedar has a pale pink color inside? Yeah, I guess it's like super pretty. Super beautiful. But did you also know that if you cut me open? I've got a little pink inside a LOL. Anyways, so they called the town Rosewood after the pink color. Okay. Nice, right. Well, as we've learned through history, we can't have nice things. So when people saw the really pretty color that was inside of these beautiful incredible trees. What do you think? They did? Yes, they cut them all down. They cut them down and they sold the A now because of this they made a pretty decent amount of money and it supported the economy of the town but still, you know sad for the trees by the year 1886 the town had developed quite a bit. It had its own post office, a Schoolhouse and they were three churches one for the white people into for the black people. Remember, we're talking about a time that's very much a segregated America. So four years later in 1890 the town began to hit some hard times. All the red cedar trees had been chopped down and without the trees. There's no money to be made which in turn leads to the town's economic decline because of the loss of income and not many available jobs, many members of the white Community left, Rosewood, and headed to the nearby town of Sumner Sumner was appealing because there was a large Sawmill which provided tons of jobs and right now the people needed work, so, sign me up for Sumner, you know, so by the 1900. The Rosewood population. Have now shifted to a majority black community. Now, with, in Rosewood. There was a really close sense of community. Like, everyone seemed to know one another and looked out for one another as well. I mean, rarely did anyone need to leave town like to travel for food or for things? They may need because they had almost everything right there with in Rosewood, in addition to the three churches Schoolhouse and post office Rosewood also had a train station. In which will become important later a general store, and a Sugar Mill. Plus, if you were looking for some fun, they even had a Rosewood baseball team. What I'm getting at is, Rosewood, was overall, just a nice place. So, for over 20 years, the people of rosewood's stayed with in Rosewood and the people of Sumner the neighboring town. They stayed with in Sumner, they coexisted. They had their own Communities going on and they were just doing their own thing, but unfortunately, that peaceful time was about To end because some shit was a bruin, but before we get into, what was a bruin, let's pause for a word from our sponsor. Things are kind of getting back to normal, I guess, right? Yeah, but I swear to you over quarantine. My brain has felt like mush and need some exercise. I mean, it is a muscle, right, you know, any who would best fiends. It feels like my brain. Got a great workout. What's best fiends. You ask? Well, it's the mobile puzzle game that will put A challenge to your Noggin, and it's kind of like you did a workout. But again, for your brain, not only that, best fiends is so fun. You won't want to put it down + best. Fiends has literally thousands of fun, puzzles to solve. I'm currently on level 50 with like a lot more to go. So, there's really nothing to brag about their. There's literally something new to play every day. And the characters are just so adorable. I want to be best fiends with them. Best means it's constantly putting out updates. So there's always something new. You exciting to explore, whenever I'm feeling a little bored or I have like, you know some time to kill between these Zoom meetings. I just bust out my phone and go straight to best fiends to tackle. Some puzzles. Download the five-star rated puzzle game. Best fiends free today on the app store or Google Play. That's best friends without the our best fiends. Thanks. Best beans for partnering with me on today's episode. Okay. Remember, it's January 1st. 1923 our young couple James. And Fanny Taylor who are white are waking up on the first day of the new year. And James was like, goodbye Fanny. Like I'm off to work. I love you babe, you know, and phinehas like oh my God. Yeah. Have a good day whenever that's probably what they did. Anyway, so James leaves his wife Fanny home alone because he has to go to work. He works at The Sawmill in Sumner which was about one mile east of Rosewood. Now while James is at work, Milling saws Fanny whose back at home. Rumor had it. Someone had attacked her. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah, the neighbors heard screams. They heard screams coming from within the Taylor's home and they were like, oh my God, you know, like what's going on screaming? Hmm. So for you and I, we'd probably go and like check it out, right would be like, oh my God, they're screaming. Are you okay, but for Fanny's neighbors, they heard the screams and then they just left it alone. Great. Yeah, awesome. So some time goes by and James comes home from Mark, and when he gets home, he sees that fanny has a big bruise on her face. It's clear that somebody had hit her pretty badly. So he asked her, you know, who did this to you and Fanny tells him that a black man assaulted her. She's like, I don't know who it was, but it was definitely a black man. According to Fanny. Hmm. I mean, this could be possible. This guy came in randomly, beat her, I guess in her own house, but remember, Like this is a small town. In fact, both Sumner and Rosewood were so small that most people recognize one another. So Are you sure we honey? Are you sure that's what you saw Fanny? The fact that Fanny like, could not name the person who attacked her. That should have been the first red flag. Okay. That maybe this person that quote unquote attacked her was not a resident from Rosewood. I'm telling you, I'm not kidding you. If you lived in Rosewood, you would know your neighbors everybody knew each other. But Fanny would most likely know this person because again, the likelihood of her not knowing is presumptive, not? So sure Fanny sure. Again, because it's a 1920s. Unfortunately, this is a time when a white woman made, bold claims of being attacked by a black person. Nobody questioned it. They just believed it to be true. So they didn't question Fanny story for one second. Like, oh my God. She was beaten by a block man. Like we are so angry and nobody wanted to like double check and make sure she what you she wasn't lying. They just just went with it. People are talking with in Rose Water. Okay, and this story about Fanny gets back to a woman by the name of Sarah carrier and she's like, wait a minute. Wait a minute. Wait a minute. Wait a minute. That's not true. Sarah said that she was at the Taylor's Home, the morning of that so-called attack, and not just that, but her granddaughter was there with her and neither of them saw black man, attack Fanny. Alone. Even enter their house. Well, you're probably wondering really who the hell Sarah. Okay. Well Sarah, she had been working for the Tailor's for quite some time. She was there that day with her granddaughter doing the Tailor's laundry. Now, Sarah said that she actually saw a white man leaving the Taylor house that morning. She said, she never saw a black man. Come by the house all day. Now, get this. Get this. Sarah recognize this white man. She had seen him come by the house once or twice before. Mmm. Sarah had believed that this man and Fanny were having some kind of Winky dinky. If you're not on me. Sarah said that this man was actually the guy that beat Fanny that morning and that she was just lying to cover her ass because she's probably having an affair. And she doesn't want people to know Fanny. So Sarah's version is now going around town. It's spreading like wildfire within the black community. They all 100% believed her. Why would she lie? Whoa, why would she lie, unfortunately, though the white voices were louder within the community and made it very clear. That Fanny was quote. Not a liar. She was telling the truth, okay. I freaking roll, right? It gets a lot more traumatic talking amongst the accusers and name comes up, Jesse Hunter, and they think they're disgusting. They're like, hey, Jesse Hunter. This is our guy. This is the guy who did it. Who's Jesse Hunter? Okay. Now Jesse Hunter was a black man who recently escaped from the nearby prison. Now because Jesse was a black man who recently escaped from prison while they're believing. He must have done. It must be the same black man. That attacked Fanny. No, Sarcasm mind you. There was absolutely 100% zero evidence that Jesse was the perpetrator, but that doesn't matter to them. They've got their minds set on Jesse Hunter and they go out looking for him while out, looking for him, the county, sheriff, Robert Walker, he joins in on the search. Now, this County Sheriff, was able to get a bunch of other white men together to form. What was called a posse to help with the search. Now, this isn't like your normal Posse today, like a Up of friends hanging out back. Then a posse was a more formal thing. It was an official group of men that a sheriff could organize in case of an emergency and this to them at the time. Well, this was that kind of Emergency. The sheriff would pull in some guys, from around town. I don't know how he picked them. But he did and he made them his temporary deputies, which is wild to think, just ran it like, hey, you your Deputy now like That's you were allowed to do that. So the county sheriff got the Posse together and they start searching for Jesse. Now, they were determined to catch him and punish him for his alleged attack towards Fanny. The Posse even went down to the local prison to borrow a pack of bloodhounds to track Jesse sent. I mean, they were seeing red. No common sense, going on here. The Posse, they hear that. Jesse was last seen with another black man named Sam. Carter. Who worked? As the local blacksmith. Now this alleged sighting has never been confirmed but they don't care. Now remember again. I've said it 100 times. It's a small town. So they know exactly where Sam Carter lives and they had straight to his house. They barged in. Okay, and they interrogated Sam and Ashland. Where's Jessie? And they're demanding. And they're like, where's Jesse? We need to know where he is right now. Where is he going? Where's Jesse? But Sam, he couldn't answer their questions because Yeah, he didn't have the answers. You know, he doesn't know. He has no idea what's going on. Of course. The Posse doesn't believe him. They were convinced that Sam, he knew something. Okay, because they are convinced of this, they get swept up in what becomes this angry mob mentality. So, they force a man of the house. The kidnap him. The posses thought process was that if they torture, Sam like they can probably get some answers as to where Jesse is, so, The kidnaps him, they hung him from a tree by his neck, pushing Sam, to tell the quote-unquote truth. Hmm, Sam. He was telling the truth the whole time. He didn't know where Jesse was but that's not acceptable to the Posse. They're hell-bent on their mission of quote-unquote Justice. They shot him to death and left his body in the road between Rosewood and Sumner Sam. Carter was only 45 years. Sold. This is just the tip of the iceberg. So by that night, the original Posse, which was, you know, it was just a small at first. Oh, babe babe. We had now, snowballed into a freaking mob. Oh, yeah, people were talking and the neighboring towns got word about like what had taken place and that this Manhunt for Jesse was going down. So a bunch of rando white men. Come out of the freaking would work. It was like we're we're You guys come from. They just showed up. There was no official count of how many men joined this Riot, but that's exactly what it turns into a freaking Riot. And this is when the massacre begins. I know this is a little heavy. We're just going to take a little moment here, break for a sponsor that helps keep dark history going. Get mouth-watering, seasonal, recipes, and fresh, pre-measured ingredients delivered right to your door with hello fresh, which is America's number one, meal Kit. Hello fresh makes cooking at home, fun easy and affordable. They offer 50 menu and Market items each week, including ready to like eat salads sandwiches and soups. There's something for everyone to enjoy. I love soup, clam chowder. Sign me up. Just love it. Anyways, all these recipes are designed and tested by professional chefs and nutritional experts to make sure that not only is it super delicious, but it's also Oh simple and just good for you. Hello fresh. They cut out that stressful meal planning and prepping that you have to do. So you can just get back to enjoying cooking and getting dinner on the table and just about 30 minutes. They even have a 20-minute offer. It's like a quick and easy option. So if you're in a rush, you only got 20 minutes. Hello fresh. Got you covered. I love hello fresh because it's just really easy. Honestly, it breaks down the recipe step by step. So you cannot mess it up and let me tell you, I usually mess everything up. Usually I start kitchen fires, but with hellofresh, no, kitchen fires. It's so easy. I can do it. And that's saying a lot. If you're interested, I would suggest you go to hellofresh.com /, dark history, 14 and use my code dark history. 14 for up to 14 free meals, including free shipping. Thank you. Hello, fresh for partnering with me on today's episode. The death of poor Sam. Carter was the Catalyst for what was about to become. The Rosewood Massacre. The Posse is still out searching for Jesse Hunter. Remember, the prison escapee who the mob believed beat Fanny. But now, but now the Posse searching for Jesse, it's it's grown bigger and bigger. And more white men are joining this mob from all over Florida, because his mom had grown to, like such a big, a big site members of the community families, both black and white. You could sense that things were getting out of control. Violence was a bruin and this no longer feels like it was just a search for Jesse 9A. It was turning more aggressive. Angry hate-filled, as this white mob was Now, using this as an excuse to destroy everything in sight. So the black community is terrified by what they're seeing happening in their own town of Rosewood. They thought that maybe if they got together in a large group, And like some of their homes, they would be safety in large numbers protecting them. So they did that a couple of days go by and on day three, there's another rumor spreading around that. Jesse was actually hiding in one of the homes that they missed back in Rosewood and the home was none. Other than Sarah carriers house to remember, Sarah carrier from earlier. She's the one that who did the laundry for the tailors who told the truth? Who had the L story, Sarah. Yeah, Sarah, son Sylvester carrier. He also lived in the house with her. Now. There was some tension between Sylvester and the people of the white Community because he was known for speaking up for himself and protecting the women in his family, which I know what's wrong with that. There's absolutely nothing good for him. Good for him. I know. I agree with you. But again, this is the 1920s. It wasn't smart, won't go smart. Just stand up for yourself or others towards white person, unless you wanted some issues. So with all that being said, it's kind of not surprising when the Posse looked at Sylvester as their next Target. Now, in addition to this, angry mob coming their way Sylvester, and Sarah also had another problem. They were keeping a lot of children from the community within their home. Although the exact number wasn't known. You see their home was close to a swamp which in turn made a great location to hide because it provided cover and it wasn't easy to walk around in. Making it hard to be followed or even get caught. Unfortunately, the swamp would come to be their best protection on the fourth day of this Riot. January 4th. The white mob is headed for the carrier home. It's a Wester wasn't going to just hide and do nothing. He was going to defend himself his family, the children. In his property and it was about to get violent when the mob gets to the carrier's house. The first thing they do. I'm sorry, but they shoot the carrier's, dog. I know, they just like freaking, shoot, the dog. One of the guys in the mob. He calls out to Sylvester. He's like, hey, come out here and present yourself that come face us. So some time goes by and they're getting no response. So now they're frustrated. They're pissed off to of the white men from the They decide to walk up onto the porch and start kicking down the front door. These two men were Henry, Andrews, and Polly Wilkerson. And it's Wilkerson who ends up kicking in the front door. So, inside of the home was Sylvester and Sarah amongst the children. There was a nine-year-old girl named Minnie Lee Mitchell Langley. She said that Sylvester saved her that day many recalled when Sylvester put her in a safe spot under the stairway while they got ready to fight. She also said that he got behind her. At one point, put a gun on her shoulder pointing it at the front door and waited for poly Wilkerson to kick the door down and when Pauly finally kicked that door down, Sylvester started shooting to defend themselves. They would end up. Killing both Andrews, and Wilkerson. Great, you know, good. Can I see that? Why did, but listen once the mob realized that Andrews and Wilkerson were shot and killed. It was not good. They were raging. Okay, they were livid, they were fuming and a gunfight then ensued. Sadly, Sarah carrier, and her son Sylvester in the middle of this. Crossfire were both, tragically murdered. The mob keeps shooting and they don't freaking Who they're hitting the only reason they eventually stopped firing was because they ran out of bullets. Great. Now, we don't know how many men women and children hiding in the house was Sarah and Sylvester survived if any but what we do know is that the ones who were able to sneak out of the house they went and they hid in the swamp they escaped. But not before they saw things that they wouldn't ever forget. One of the children are net Goings. Has spoke later about their struggle to escape going. Said, he remembers some staying out for two or three long January nights. In the cold swamp, scared for their lives. But after days of waiting, they were able to escape the mob. Now, the guys in the mob are pumped with adrenaline and anger and they are ready to cause more destruction. They decided to set fire across several houses and a church on their way back home. So this was no longer about Fanny or I see this was just a mission to destroy any property owned by the black community in Rosewood and the surrounding areas with the mob, on the move, the black people living in Rosewood began to flee, the town in a hurry. They knew that the mob would be coming back. Wanting revenge for the murder of Andrews and Wilkerson. They weren't going to just let that go so many head in the cover of the swamp. Like the kids did thinking it would be hard to find them or catch them in there. With in Rosewood lived, a man named John right now. John Wright was well known within the black community. He was a white man, but he was friendly to his neighbor's. Again. This is a different time, period, right? And John, he wanted to help protect them in their time of need. He's seeing out his window. What's going down in Rosewood, and he wants to open up his store and help the community. These are his neighbor's, his friends, his family. He can't just sit back and watch it because John was white, the mob. Even think about burning down his house. No. No, they did not, they were like, nope. He's white. He's good, save his house, but burn all these over here. There were also white families in Sumner who sheltered and protected, people who they knew often, people who worked for them Friday morning on January 5th, 1923. It's now day. Five of the Rosewood Massacre things have been pretty bad so far, but shits about to get even more real. Two hundred armed White. Men comes storming into Rosewood and they're coming from all over the state to be a part of this action with those two hundred armed white men. Some are even members of the Klu Klux Klan. As you can, probably imagine. This is not good. This is very bad. Why are they even here? How did they get? He's like, why are they here? What are they doing here? There isn't even much information as to how these guys knew what was going on. But what we do know is that they showed up. So the group, it's A lot larger, right? And they were causing way more damage and destruction. They burned more homes. They burn the second Church, the Masonic lodge and the schoolhouse they even burn the baseball field to just everything complete and utter destruction. Everything is gone except John Wright's house. So at this point, it's hard to know how many black residents are still left in their Town. Those who could they ran for the swamp? But only those who were too old or sick to run. They were trapped there, and the members of the mob shot them on site, such as Lexi Gordon. She was a Rosewood resident. She ran from her burning home that day trying to escape when she was shot in the back and killed, not just killed. She was murdered the same day. A man named Mingo Williams was also murdered. He was shot in the head. He wasn't even from Rosewood. He was literally just in the wrong. Place at the wrong time Mingo was the seventh recorded person to die in Rosewood so far. There's Sam, Carter Sylvester carrier his mother Sarah, Lexi garden and now Mingo Williams who are killed by the mob, murdered by the mob. And then there's Henry Andrews and Polly Wilkerson who were killed while storming, the carrier house. So in the early hours of day six, it's around 4 a.m. Some help finally comes for Oh, those who were trying to escape destruction by this time, word got out about what was going on in Rosewood. And everybody was talking about it. Right? Brothers, John and William, Bryce also got word about what was taking place in Rosewood. I know, I know. I know. I don't know. What's a lot of names. I'm throwing at you, but who are John and William Bryce? Okay. Well, they, they worked as train conductors who happen to pass through the Rosewood train station all of the time and the Rosewood train station was one of the Only things that wasn't burned down. So when they found out what was happening taken place, what was going down in Rosewood? They knew that they had to help out their community. So the brothers pulled their train into the station to allow women and children, who had been hiding in the swamp, hop on the train and get the heck out of Rosewood as fast as they could with a train full of people. The brace Brothers stopped in different cities along the Route, allowing the survivors to get off the train. Rain and attempt to begin their lives. Again and a new city. They had left everything behind they escaped near death, and now they were forced to live in fear and never return to their homes and Rosewood. Again, to this day, some of the victims descendants still live in the nearby towns that they went to like Gainesville Florida. Now, let's take a little pause for a break Squarespace, empowers millions of dreamers makers and Jewelers by providing them with the tools. They need to bring their creative ideas with Squarespace. It's an all-in-one platform where you can build a website, claim a domain sell products or even just Market your brand Squarespace, has made it easier than ever to establish your online presence. It's the perfect option for people who are ready to take, you know that next step and like make their ideas come to life because you can personalize everything when it comes to your website, it can truly. Be a reflection of who you are and like what your brand stands for. It's so easy to use. If you are like new to this at all. It's not intimidating. If this sounds up your alley, I would suggest you head to squarespace.com dark history for a free trial and when you're ready to launch your new website, use the offer code dark history to save, 10% off your first purchase of a website or domain big. Thank you to Squarespace. Hey, Squarespace on Sunday. Anywhere, he 6 1923. This is the Sixth and final day of the Rosewood Massacre, the angry Posse turned mobs that had burned, most of Rosewood and left a path of destruction. In its wake was Now, setting out to finish what they started. They wanted to burn down any property left and kill any black residents who had not escaped so they come across James carrier on the road. James was Sarah's brother and Esther's uncle and he was partially paralyzed from stroke while Sarah and Sylvester had briefly held down the fort during the attack. He had escaped with the children and had also hidden with them, in the swamp. After it seemed like, you know, the danger might have passed. So he gets up and he leaves the swamp hoping to return to his home and just kind of figure it out from there. Right? But unfortunately, James, he wouldn't make it some members of the mob, they surrounded him. They marched him to the local Cemetery where they then shot and murdered him right next to the fresh Graves of Sarah and Sylvester. I know, I know this is awful. I know, I know, I know after the murder of James, the mob, just kept setting fire to all the homes and buildings until literally. There's nothing left. Rosewood was completely wiped. It was destroyed. It was gone without That being said, what we know for sure is that at least eight people died during the Rosewood Massacre, but what hasn't been recorded as the trauma on the community for decades to come and I should add. It's believed that there are a lot more victims than just ate, but there are eight, like, on record. So, a few weeks go by, and in February of 1923 somebody. Somebody finally speaks up and they're like, hey, Something just happened over here that maybe we should talk about, so they bring it to the attention of a grand jury the way, a grand jury worked at least back. Then was that a prosecutor presents? A case to a group of citizens and they can ask questions and investigate the situation and they get to decide if they think anyone should be charged with a crime. It sounds pretty fair. Right? The it's the thought of it, the idea of it sounds pretty fair, but in 1923 and fortunately, this jury. It's been all white. So I'm surprised when they didn't see anything wrong with what had taken place in Rosewood and they chose not to press any charges. No one involved in the massacre was found guilty of a crime. In fact, to make things even worse. No one was even arrested for these murders. It took until the 1931 case of the Scottsboro boys for any kind of solid law, push back. To stop black people from being excluded, from being jurors this case which involved nine black teenagers accused of allegedly. Raping a white woman had not just one trial, but his series with all kinds of reversals, dismissals retrials. I mean, it lasted over two decades. Just this whole thing is a wild story. Again. We're definitely going to have to do it for another time. But after it was discovered that there were no black people in the jury records, there were name. That had been forged to make it look like there was AKA they lied. They forged them. You get them saying you get it. Once. They realize that the names had been forged did the Supreme Court say, the Alabama jury selection process was unconstitutional because it was all white and exclude black people on purpose. This of course, didn't get rid of the all-white juries, but it was a start and that's important because in Florida, A all-white juries were 16 percent more likely to convict black defendants than white defendants. And that's not looking good when you are looking for a fair trial, Fair trial, like, come on, you guys. No, but besides all of that the cherry on top of this whole story, all the records relating to the Rosewood Massacre. We're lost. Gone poof disappeared. Internal records after what happened. Yeah, no, don't there. So there's no records. There's no records as to what took place in Rosewood. The only way we were able to tell this story of history is By Word of Mouth. Now, we're going to pause for a break this summer is showing welcoming signs of a more normal life ahead. Finally. You can get back to enjoying the little things in life, like smiling at your Hey Bob, you know, seeing a movie, maybe even going to the post office. Okay? Yes, what I live. A boring normal life. I didn't choose this life, it chose me, but with stamps.com, you can actually skip trips to the post office and even save money on postage. Save money. You say yes, who, like, saving money. You do mail and / or ship anytime anywhere. Right from your computer, maybe send your grandma. Better. Hey Grandma, you know or like ship some packages and with stamps.com. You can pay less a lot less because they got the homie hook up with the discounted rates from USPS and UPS. So with stamps.com thousands of businesses have saved countless hours and money every year. If you're new or a small business, they make it easy to mail and ship with the ability to print official US Postage and shipping labels 24/7 without having to leave your desk or like having to buy fancy equipment. You know, all you need is your computer and a standard printer and with their switch and save feature. You can quickly compare carriers to find the best rates every time amazing. There's no risk, and with my promo code dark history, you get a special offer that includes a four-week trial, plus free postage and a digital scale. They leave out the long-term commitments and there's no contracts again. Go to stamps.com and use promo code dark history. You'll never have to go to the post office, again. Stamps.com, baby, wink. A big thank you to stamps.com for partnering with me on today's episode for the survivors of the Rosewood Massacre, the fear from that day, it lingered. Okay, as I said before many relocated to other towns in Florida and none of them would end up returning to live in Rosewood. Some of the victims even went as far as changing their names when they moved, because they were afraid. Read that the people in the mob, they weren't going to stop looking for them. They were going to continue to hunt them down until they killed them. So, the survivors, the people of Rosewood, they were living in constant fear, you know, they're always watching their back thinking. These guys are going to come for them. And I think we can both agree. That's no way to live Arnett. Dr. Sarah carriers. Great-grandson said that within the family home. There was like a strict set of rules that nobody brought. Caught up the massacre. Nobody talked about it. Unless the elders brought it up. You just did it on top of that. Many of those who participated in the mob were still alive and Arnett. He recalled that his mother. She knew some of them by their name. It was just psychological trauma and fear. That would be passed on throughout these families for generations to come the stories from that day. Lived on within the black community. Not forgiven. Definitely, not forgotten. There's a saying that those who forget history are doomed to repeat it. So, while the story was not widely broadcasted, there are those who made it a mission, to make sure that this massacre did not slip away or be forgotten in the sands of time. Even without that, the fear and the trauma from this period would affect the survivors lives forever. Aside from the emotional scars, the pain, the morning, the fear there was a huge Huge loss of property and wealth which, okay, I know what you're thinking, like property and wealth is nothing in comparison to losing loved ones, but it was what they had to pass down to their children or to their families and because the people in Rosewood, they weren't millionaires, you know, they owned their own businesses houses and their own land. That's what they had. That's what they hatch their names. All of, that was taken from them and burnt to the ground. They weren't just robbed of the land or Structures. They were robbed of leaving their legacies and their chance to leave what they built to their children. So, and you're not miss hearing me with this next sentence, 71 years ago by yes, 71 years go by. Finally, the Rosewood Massacre would properly I'm saying that sarcastically be acknowledged. So the survivors, they received some money if they could prove that they were direct descendants of Rosewood property owners. These checks are little more than insult to injury and some were as little, as $100 or less, which is like avocado. Thanks. This was actually the first bill in the United States that compensated the black community, for our past racial Injustice. The Black and Hispanic caucus has or groups of lawmakers. They pushed hard to get this recognition in 2020. Yeah. You heard me right 20/20, babe. The state of For dessert, a scholarship for the direct descendants. It would only pay for some of the students to attend college. But Florida, also put together a formal commission, which would be dedicated to researching the history of this tragedy. Not only that, it would allow the descendants to share their stories in their own words, and their voices could finally be heard. So you're probably wondering like what happened to Fanny? There's no record that Fanny ever came clean. About the lie that she spread Fanny never. I told the truth Penny got something to say, let us know, watch what remains of Rosewood today. Maybe like. There's a big Monument, you know, where you can show your respects to or something, you know, well for small town that once had about like, give or take 300, people living in it. Most people have since left and gone to different communities in the surrounding area. And again, when we said they never came back, they never came back. There's only one house left standing in rows. And guess whose house that is. John Wright's house. Yeah him, John, right? Remember he was the man who opened his door to the community as a safe house. His house is still there. I'm getting I'm laughing because ain't that some shit. You know, like wow, you would think this would be some kind of historical monument in Rosewood. Right? Right. You would think that right you did that right? Well in 2020, so again last year the house it was actually up for sale and it was sold to some random. Mass family in 2020, which is totally fine. Like you're totally thought. Yeah, but like are you surprised that this this house is in a monument or anything? Yeah, like maybe protected by the state because it's all that's left of Rosewood. You would think, right? It's what's left of the Rosewood Massacre. You think it would be considered a historical, monument or right? Okay, great. We're on the same page. I'm glad you agree. Well, the Rosewood Heritage Foundation. They've tried to reach out to The family who moved into John Wright's home, but they haven't heard any response, the future of this historical home, it remains unclear. I just this moment in history is just awful, right? Unfortunately, though. It's kind of familiar. It sounds a lot. Like the Tulsa Race Massacre, the Tulsa Race Massacre took place in Tulsa, Oklahoma in 1921, and it Also started as a reaction to a young black boy who was accused of hurting a white woman and all these murders and writers destroyed Tulsa. Again, if you've never heard about the Tulsa Race Massacre, I would highly recommend that. After this, you should take a moment and educate yourself on what happened. I did a full video on it over my YouTube. If you want to check that out, but I would highly suggest you do research and educate yourself on it, too, but stories like today, It showcases Decades of violence with effects that still persist today. We need to make sure that we are keeping history honest and transparent because without that we're doomed to repeat it and look, it was until freaking 2020 that they started this Foundation to help The Descendants and like, yes, that's amazing. That's incredible. And they've been working so hard to get acknowledgement for it. But the same time you're like what took them so long, you know, I think that's a I think that's a great question. You'll like dr. Edward Gonzalez. Tenant, make sure that the story is kept alive, passed on for generations to come and the communities voices are indeed heard. He started the Rosewood Heritage in VR project or virtual Rosewood.com. If you're curious learn more. The link will be in the show credits / description box. But this project it's incredible. It is dedicated to the Rosewood victims and making sure that their story is never forgotten since our history books seem to have Left that section out, you know, these foundations keep the conversation on going by building a movement to build memoriam, 's and landmarks even working towards trying to make Rosewood a National Historic Landmark. There has been talks about building museums and Exhibits in Florida. I mean, as they should. But for now, there's a sign in Rosewood sponsored by the real Rosewood Foundation that does share the horrific events. That took place in Rosewood in 1923. And that my friends is the horrible awful, dark history of the Rosewood Massacre. Whoo. It's heavy, huh? Stories. Like this can be really uncomfortable, you know, very uncomfortable, but they're important. How can we ever learn and grow? If we don't know where we've been, and the Rosewood Massacre is a fraction of what's been taking place in our country for a very long time in the story notes. It's going to put some further reading. If you want to learn more and become more educated with the Rosewood Massacre. I will love to hear from you guys. So if we have Twitter, let's scoot it all over there. Let's continue this conversation. Use the hashtag dark history. I would love to hear your thoughts. If you learned from this story, you can also join me over on my YouTube, where you can watch these episodes after the podcast errors and also catch murder mystery and makeup, which drops every Monday. I appreciate you guys. I love you guys. His. I hope you have a great rest of your day ahead. Please. Make good choices. Okay, and I'll be talking to you next week. Dark history is an audioboom original dark history is executive produced by Chelsea Durgan from / management and Fanny. Badri. Darielle, Kristen and Spencer, strasmore from wheelhouse DNA, video, director Trent, Barbosa producer, Lexi, Kevin research, I'd by Elizabeth Hyman writer, Haley Gordon and I'm your host. I'm going to give myself some credit to for writing. Thank you so much. Really staring at historical consultants for today's episode was provided by dr. Edward consolidates tenant, professor of anthropology University of Central, Florida. And dr. Maxine Jones professor of History, Florida, State University without you. We couldn't keep the story alive. Thank you so much for helping us. Continue the conversation here on dark history.
