 Hi, friends. I hope you're having a wonderful day today. My name is Bailey sarian, and I'd like to welcome you to the library of dark history. Hi, how's it going? This? If you don't know, is a safe space for all the Curious cats out there, who think, hey, Bailey has history really as boring as it seemed in the school. Oh, Nene. This is where we can learn together about all of the dark, mysterious and dramatic stories are teachers. Never told us about. So the other day I was on Instagram live and maybe some of you were scared. As he was farting on my God. Remember? Yeah. I know so far. It was Saint. I swear. Okay, it was saying but you know, I was reading the comments that were coming in there rolling and, you know, I try not to read too much into it, but I did see a handful ofComments that asked Billy are you pregnant? And then there were a couple other of of, that said like you look pregnant you have that pregnancy glow and even though like everybody else was really nice in the in the chat whatnot. Sometimes if you just catch you in the right mood or I should say the wrong mood, you can kind of fixated on just one negative not even maybe a negative comment cuz let me tell you. I kept thinking about it because lately I've been getting a lot of messages lately. I asked him if I'm pregnant on my God. Damn you guys. I know I've been eating Taco Bell a lot. But like is it that obvious? Why are you asking me? You know? And like sometimes I'll be up at like 2 in the morning and I'm like Star spiraling and I might do, I need to go on a diet is a fat and that's so toxic. And this is how I got you. Today's topic. Her name is Diet culture and she's a bit about fickle bitch. If you go on Instagram today.Watch a movie or look at any of the fashion ads, you'll see dozens of ways. You can have the ideal body. Oh my God, beginning of the year. And right before, summer? How to lose weight, how to get in shape achieving your goals for a freaking Beach, Body Bronze, whatever, you know, according to these ads are the women with the ideal body is highly feminine, slim tall usually white or tan. Like she just want to make a living a truly fabulous, life of luxury. These ads, all claimed that whatever died at their pitching is the one that you that can give you like this incredible life and most of all it's the easiest diet you ever do easy, but what actually is Diet culture put simply it's living your life by thinking that going on a diet and being skinny can solve all of your problems. But really it's the way all of us view Butte.Health or even our own bodies. It's a mental conditioning that place is being thin as the Pinnacle of success Beauty and health. And that's no accident because dieting is a billion dollar industry that makes money off of our insecurities, right? That this conditioning us created and money. If you haven't learned anything here money is always a reason. Money is always a reason but the truth is there isn't actually a quote for the correct body size and there never has been and did you know that researchers have found that 98% of all diets are complete failures 98%, that alone is proof that no diet will give you an ideal or average body. Plus it turns out what we consider ideal. I'm using folks here or average has evolve Dover history and behind every changes.Someone or something, looking to make women feel like shit, no matter what, so buckle, and kitty cats, and get ready for the dark history of diet culture. You ready, John? Oh my God, you guys are watching on YouTube. Joan has her workout gear on. She's got her leg warmers for sweatband. She's ready to get physical physical. She wants to get physical physical diet culture, chapter. Miss is going to be toxic. I'm sure nobody knows for sure. When humans started to say one type of body was better than the other because that kind of discussion, predates written history. But what we do know, is that the very first time, the word diet appeared with almost 3,000 years ago in ancient Greece. It comes from the word theater. I think I said that, right? And it represented an entire way of life, better food, better drink and a brand new focus on exercise. Great. So, even before it had a name, diet culture was a huge part of life in ancient Greece, especially for women because people in ancient Greece, show their admiration for the female body in their artwork by painting and sculpting elaborate pictures of larger curvier women, even the goddess, Aphrodite was usually depicted as being curvy and since she was the goddess of sex love and beauty. I think it's safe to say the body doesn't get more ideal than the body of a goddess and the quote-unquote ideal pretty much stayed this way throughout history willing to the 1800s weight was viewed as a symbol of status for women. If you were curvier woman, you were probably Rich because you could Afford to eat more. And if you were Rich, you were definitely beautiful. And if you were considered beautiful, well, then assumed you were fertile. That's right. Almost every Western Beauty. Standard was related to how many babies, a man, thought you could pump out. And this continued throughout the 1890s, winning drawings, started appearing, in mainstream magazines of the Gibson Girl. The Gibson Girl was tall, beautiful. Slim wasted yet, curvy often posing next to sayings like the ideal body or the new woman and every picture the Gibson Girl had a look of complete confidence on a Flawless face. She was always drawn doing something physically active. So sometimes the Gibson Girl was riding a bike. Sometimes she was swimming. Sometimes she was riding a horse. There's even this one picture of the Gibson. Girl, using a magnifying glass to burn a tiny little man. That was a size of an ant, girl power. I mean, the girl could do Right? And she did it all while looking hot as hell songs, closing lines, and even wallpaper designs were modeled after the Gibson, Girl. And when most women in America saw her, they wanted to be her. The only problem the Gibson Girl wasn't even real. She was a drawing made by a man named Charles Dana Gibson, who wanted to make drawings of the ideal woman in 1914. The Gibson Girl started to fade away at the start of World War 1 with almost every man in America at War. It was a huge void in the workforce that was filled by enthusiastic women, craving Independence, but once the war ended and Men returned home woman, didn't want to return to the old ways. Three things happened. The first thing that happened was a doctor named Lulu hunt Peters published the very first diet book in 1918. It was called diet and health with key to the calories. So, just a very super exciting title now, according to dr. Lulu. You have to think about your body, like a car engine and about food, like, it was fuel, if there is not enough fuel, the car will run sluggishly and die, but if you eat too much, they'll slow down the whole system. Dr. Lulu stated that women should eat one perfect meal at lunch every day. Consisting of cottage cheese and unbuttered French roll. I mean, yeah, that's going to work for sure. I mean, you're going to lose weight. And in order to resist eating any more than that will. Dr. Lulu introduced, the idea of calorie intake. She recommended woman. Consume no more than 1,200 calories per day to stay healthy. For comparison. Most women today are told to consume, no, more than 2,000 calories per day with the book was hid, it sold millions of copies and became the very first successful diet. Book. The second was that the bathroom scale was invented the worst thing ever easily. Find out how much they weighed article start popping up in magazines and newspaper saying that body fat was a result of bad willpower. You weren't considered rich if you were fat anymore. Now, you were considered lazy and the third and final thing that happened, the passage of the 19th Amendment and 1919 where President Woodrow you eat it Wilson. Gabriel. Even the right to vote with this newfound Independence. A new kind of rebellious style, begin to pop up the flapper. So you already know the basic details. I hope at least. Maybe you remember cute little bob hair with like a a V at the neck. Art deco-inspired skirts, which hit like at or right above to me which is much shorter than the dresses. Women usually wore back then sexually liberated drinking all day and a night at the speakeasies, the legal aid during prohibition. You get it. But one thing we haven't really talked about is the flapper body shape for the first time and US History. Women weren't interested in looking, curvy or fertile for men, nothing or not. Now because of calorie counting the scale and a cultural desire to look and feel more Independent, Women wanted to be thin. This was also around the time that Coco Chanel began, promoting the iconic Chanel silhouette, which if you don't know, is a drawing of a small black dress with a tiny waist, line African Joan over here, couldn't fit into it yet to be invisible to fit into it. Okay, and I'm a body shaming you John. It's just you know, Yeah, okay, you get it, but the silhouette was such a successful ad campaign. It directly led to the creation of the flapper body type as we all know, counting calories and just wishing for a better body, doesn't? It doesn't work, but that didn't stop people from trying to turn a profit. And this is where the story starts to get dark because we see the birth of The Fad diet. It's a promise of Better Body, a better life, a better me, and it's not even that much work. Before we get into that. I'm going to pause for an ad break. Have you ever had an acne breakout, at the worst possible time? I know I have I hate when I'm feeling cute and I'm going to take a picture and bun plant when to show up. It's so annoying. But hey, we've all had struggles with our skin. And that's why I'm always excited to partner with apostrophe. The sponsor of this episode apostrophes, a prescription skin care company, that offers, science-backed oral and topical medications that are clinically proven to help. Clear acne at apostrophe of Ford certified dermatologist can simply fill out, apostrophes online quiz about your skin goals and medical history. Then you're going to snap a few selfies and a board-certified dermatologist will create your customized. Barbie treats all types of acne from hormonal acne to facial acne breakouts from head to toe. I've been using an apostrophe for over a year now and I just I love it so much. I'm very loyal at this point. It's nice to not have to wait weeks to see them in person and then have to wait in line to pick up prescriptions. I received all of my oral and topical medications, right to my doorstep with apostrophe right now. We have a special deal for my audience. Say $15 off your first visit with an apostrophe provider an apostrophe dark history to you. My listeners to get started. Just go to apostrophe.com and click begin. Visit dollars at the apostrophe a p. O s t. R, o p, h e. Calm dark history and use that code dark history to get your dermatologist. After treatment plan for $5 episode now. And we're back high and it's still the Roaring Twenties from admissions. The law of the land with speakeasies are commonplace. And what was common at speakeasies in the 20s flapper ears by the 1920s diets, promoting ways to look like a flapper were so common that you can open a magazine or newspaper without seeing them. There would be ads for diet pills, chewing gum that like supposedly made, you want to eat less and even laxatives that would make you poop out all that excess food, you know, great. One of the earliest fad diets at this time was known as the medical Millennium diet, which called for patients to chew slowly eat one dish per meal and indoor regular enemas. See that working. If you don't know what is Panama, is allow me to quote, a producer on the show, her scientific definition. Is that enemas, quote suck. Everything else was your butt. It's not wrong. Anyway, another early fad diet was known as the cigarette diet. And that is exactly as it sounds like. Advertising for Lucky Strike, cigarettes would show thin sexy women, taking a drag off of a cigarette. Next to words like reach for a lucky instead of assumed. So basically, just like, stopped eating and start smoking. I mean, that's what I did when I was 18, but it wasn't just magazines that helped spread impossible beauty standards. Because if you remember, from past episodes, like the Golden Age of Hollywood was just really starting to take off in the 1920s. And any time you went to a movie theater. You would see an impossibly beautiful woman with a flapper ball staring down at you. How did these women end up looking? That way? Well, they did it with the help of something called the Hollywood. 18 day diet for 18 days. You cut out all the food and drink other than oranges. Grapefruit post and eggs. And of course, you would follow it all by Chain, smoking, cigarettes. I mean, all that fruit counteracts. What's the calorie intake for this one meal, a mere 585 Cal. Always think none of these diets were actually good for you. If you haven't caught some sources say that over 90% of these diet ended in Failure. I wonder why they were probably hungry. I mean some of those failures were just Jess. I'm not laughing at that. It's just like, yeah, you know, I guess if you died at council's of failure, what are the best examples of these diets failing? Women can be seen with a woman named Riaz Adele Watson. We also was born on July 23rd 1896 in the state of Washington. She was considered a lovely and clever girl with an active imagination. Who from a very early age had wanted to be an actor. She told everybody in her family. She want to be a great actress, so she could wield a dagger against men. I mean, same. When she read a newspaper as well, all they like new opportunities popping up in this like brand new city called Hollywood. She begged her daddy to move the family down there, all dad, saw all the potential. And so when we also was only 13, the whole family headed straight on down to Hollywood, California, Riaz. I started working as an extra in early silent films for a few years, but I guess during this time, she wasn't really able to break into acting like she had hoped. So she decided to change by 24 changed, her name from, we all talked to Barbara, Lamarr and quickly got a job with Fox as a screenwriter Barbara was visiting a film set with a friend. When an actor named Douglas Fairbanks, how Barbara from across the room. Historians Dave Douglass. Barbara was so smoking hot and got her to sign up to make her first few films within just a few months in 1921. Barbara Lamarr was a star. She was always playing a lot of rules where she looked dark mysterious and beautiful and most Then audiences couldn't get enough of her. She ended up making 27 films over the next four years and was even considered an icon and flapper culture, but keeping up that image of huge price for Barbara and she births in appearance top. She would experiment with every fad diet. She could find one of those diets was rumored to have been an experimental Heap. Worm diet, where she would take, like a huge pill with a small tapeworm inside, so that when she died tested the pill, the tapeworm would grow inside of her and it would help her lose even more weight. I remember years ago. I watch the tire Big Show, maybe something, you know, I'm talking about Tyra Banks Show. It was about the girl who had the tapeworm diet. Don't ask me not to mention. She was partying into the early hours, pretty much every single night by late 1925, all the hard-partying and 10. Siding. Let Barbara being diagnosed with a number of diseases. These included pulmonary tuberculosis and nephritis. I was struggling to say those words right now, which is an inflammation of the kidneys, or it's her heart. Sometimes sometimes I ask myself. Why are you doing a podcast? You can't even say words, you know, yeah, but here I am. Dream big. I think I said that in the beginning, remember these forced her to be completely bedridden and by December 1925. She was said to have weighed less than 80 lb, barely even a month later on. January 30th. 1926 Barbara Barbara died, as a result of those diseases. She was just 29 years old Barbara. He is just one of many of young women who suffer from dangerous diet standards in the twenties between the turn of the century and Barbara's death in 1926 historians. Say that woman's bust to waist ratio size in magazine has dwindled by almost 60%. And by bus to waist ratio size women, the size of women's waist was getting smaller and the size of their breasts are getting bigger titties realize that during the same time. Historians also say that there was an epidemic of eating disorders and young women who over adapted to the flapper Beauty Trend. I mean, this was like the real birth of diet culture. Now, the rise of fad diets and diet culture in the 1920s started making people a lot of money, but unfortunately for them, the 1920s ended badly when the Great Depression had things. My States millions of people lost their jobs and their homes. I mean, there were as many as two million recorded homeless people in just the first few years alone. So for women, fashion and dieting became an afterthought to Simply surviving and over the course of the 1930s magazine, advertisements for diets shifted, Focus out with the real thin body in the 1920s, flapper because now being skinny was associated with being poor. So a fuller curvier body type was all the rage kind of like the Gibson Girl from before. But this time there was a bit of a difference from the Gibson Girl because women didn't have much in the way of resources. They had to get creative with their clothes. So they started turning men's suits and two women's attire that has led to the padded shoulder. Look, now, you might be picturing the padded shoulder look from the 80s. I say that right but the look that women in the thirties and forties came up with accentuated their curves, more, creating the iconic hourglass look and along the way diet books, continue to rise in popularity and become a multimillion-dollar industry, like, people don't have money for food, but they had money for diet books. Anyways, nothing really shifts in the 40s and 50s. Ideal body type is still a little curvy and like, fad diets and diet books. Continue to grow just as an industry. It's all just chugging along, then in the 1960s at the ideal body any Ice dates. Once again, changed into a thinner body type. For this time, women began to push back. Eurocentric beauty standards had been the focus for far too long. And as a result, we start to see two movements. Begin first. The black is beautiful movement. It was informed by the civil rights movement, and sought to challenge those hero Centric. Beauty standards that can. Blackness quote on quote ugly. I'm not saying not, that's what. Don't yet. Don't come for me. The organizers of black is beautiful joined forces with other members of the Black Power movement and began boycotting institutions. That didn't highlight or even acknowledge. Her beauty Beyond white skinned black is beautiful officially began on January 28th, 1962 at a huge fashion show in. Harlem. This wasn't a typical fashion show for the sixties. It was called naturally 62 and has been organised by the African Jazz art society and Studios also known as a jazz, which was a group of black Credo, is that was led by a photographer named Kwame brathwaite, show. Featured black women who had actively chosen to move away. From Western beauty, standards the models who walked down the catwalk that night probably wore their hair and natural styles. Their clothes were inspired by designs from countries like Lagos Acura and Nairobi and their bodies. Much more Fuller figure than the woman pictured, in fashion magazines. Kwame said later that the fashion show was both an act of Celebration and protest. A celebration of black beauty and a protest against Western beauty standards. The show was such a success. That more shows popped up across the world. The Mantra black is beautiful start to hit the mainstream was musicians like Nina Simone promoting it at the same time. That black is beautiful was making an impact on Western beauty standards. Another movement popped up with a more unorthodox approach. This was known as the fat acceptance movement. This movement was started by a man named Steve post. Know. Steve was born in the Bronx in 1944 and grew up a kid who had been picked on his entire life for beans bigger. As he got older, Steve slim down, but never lost his anger over being picked on for being fat. He eventually became a radio DJ and would spend just as much time talking about Fat acceptance as he would, the music on the radio. When the New York Times interviewed him. He said, quote people should be proud of being fat. We want to show, we feel happy not guilty and quote and one day Steve decided he had enough, he called for his supporters to band together to fight against unfair, body Sanders feel like so many other counter-cultural movements, the fat acceptance movement began with a sit-in but the fat acceptance movement called there's a fat in in 1967 500 people at Central Park in New York City to protest against companies pushing unrealistic beauty, standards the group held protest signs saying things like take a fat girl, to dinner at Power and do that was fat. They also brought full meals and set up a bonfire to burn diet books. Other than the fires. No laws were broken and the fat, and was a huge success. One of the people Who saw the success of the fat and was a man named Lou louderback a journalist for the Saturday evening post, just days before the fatted lose wife, came home, crying from work. She said that her co-workers had been tormenting her for her weight and didn't choose to know to do. Okay? And when Lou saw the fat and he decided to write an article called more people should be fat that detailed his wife's discrimination as well as others. He had heard about this article interested. A lot of people and over the next few years more and more people start to reach out to Lue just a few years. After the initial article, Lou started the first official fat acceptance organization. It was called the National Association to Aid fat. Americans also known as NASA along with black is beautiful NASA, where one of the first known organizations to raise the point that American beauty standards tend to favor one type of body. That body type may change throughout history, but the consistent theme is that America always prefers is somewhat skinny, white woman, and what the NASA and the black is beautiful movement proposed is what if it wasn't this way, people greed, but many people were focusing on being more accepting of bigger body types. The rest of the country was focused on fully falling in line with diet culture, and sometimes and very deadly ways, but first, let's pause for an odd break. Every so often I'll go off the grid with family and friends at night. Like text will go without a response. Call us don't get picked up but there's no need to worry because I'm just at home playing best fiends. Okay. Look, Others May wonder about your mysterious disappearance. But if you're having as much fun as I am, it's no secret why you sneak off to play? I love playing best fiends right now, 46. So I think that's proof showing how much I love. It's fun. If you don't know, best fiends as a free to download mobile puzzle game that I really like, because it has thousands of challenging and exciting levels. So I never get bored. There are dozens of unique things. You can collect. So you can customize your team and says, it's just on your phone. It's easy to play wherever, and whenever you have some free time, so you can be waiting for your coffee in line at the store or just laying in bed and with offline play, even if you lose Internet. You can still play best fiends. It's so satisfying. When you beat each level and totally gets you in the zone while playing brand new events and challenges pop-up, all year round. So you've always had a chance to earn exclusive in-game items characters and rewards. Download your new favorite getaway best fiends for free on the App Store or Google. Play Billie to get $5 worth of in-game rewards when you reach level 5, which should be easy because on the I'm on level 1546. Two level five, very easy. That's friends. Without the r best fiends. As the years went on sad diets came and went in the United States. There was the metrical diet which was a 225 calorie Shake meant to be drunk, four times a day. And there was the drinking man's diet which was like a liquid based diet that vary depending on who you ask. What are the versions of this diet? Ask people to drink six glasses, of Buttermilk, add a girl, who is that going to do for you? There was even one called the Israeli Army diet, which is weird because it has nothing to do with Israel or their army. But this one was four cycles of one food per day for like days one and two. All you get is Apple's, okay, three and four cheese, five and six chicken. And the final day you were upgraded to a salad, but there was one guy in particular that changed. Everything and it continues to exist even today. I'm giggling because I mean we all did this. Okay. I don't know when you, I don't know someone who didn't do this, but Atkins diet and applies for the Atkins diet. Yep. It was created by a man named Robert Atkins. Who was born in 1930 in Columbus, Ohio. Now Robert graduated from Cornell University, Medical College in 1955, and he received a degree in medicine for an internship and residency. Robert open a private practice that specialize in cardiology in the Upper East Side of New York City, but his medical practice did it didn't go so well at first. So I guess Robert became depressed. And during that time, he gained weight and became very unhappy with his body. I guess. One day, Robert came across some research by a man named Al Pennington and Al had theorize. That the perfect diet was one with low carbohydrates. Now what Robert got out of it was that burning fat takes more calories. So you expend more calories, Robert. Love this idea. So he put together a diet and she named it after himself. Of course, in 1972. He published the very first Atkins diet book, The Science said you could eat as much meat cheese eggs and other high-fat Foods. As you wanted butter, mayonnaise, sour cream, you can eat it. Okay, but there's a catch. You absolutely cannot eat anything high in carbs like bread pasta, cereal and even fruit. Pick your poison. It sounds familiar. That's because Atkins is basically the world's first keto diet, which still exists today. But back in the seventies, the idea that you could lose weight while eating fatty foods, Like steak and cheese was freaking revolutionary. Okay. So the book was an immediate hit selling millions of copies in its first years and becoming the best-selling fad diet book ever written. The Atkins diet didn't go without criticism, though, many in the medical industry said, his diet was dangerously wrongheaded. Some doctor said that the Atkins diet would cause heart problems, constipation, fatigue, and bad breath, even compared the Atkins diet to the cigarette diet. I talked about earlier saying that the fact that some people could lose weight by smoking, cigarettes did not mean that smoking was good for them. So the big question is does the Atkins diet work? Well, I mean, I'm sure you're alive. You were going to say yeah, it does work. It works for like is it good for you? I think that's what we're going to try and decide here. First. We have the story of Anne Gardner in the spring of Elsa for an was 33 years old, and weight 325 lb. And had always had a larger body, but she didn't see her weight issues as a problem until her aunt was diagnosed with diabetes, Alice made an anxious. So she decided it was time for a change and that change came, the very next time and saw her. And we lost 80 lb since the last time she seen her there and told her she had started. This thing called the Atkins diet and and didn't believe it could be that simple. You could to eat cheese steak. What else, everything else, yum, you know, just doesn't sound too good to be true. But then she found out that another one of her aunts had done the Atkins diet and lost weight as well. So and figured like it, you know, if she decided to give it a try, then six months and lost 80 pounds within the next two years. She lost another 60 lb and today and weighs 185 lb And this brought her Joy, which is really all that matters, but for every and there are dozens of stories that are a much. Darker one doctor told a story about three patients. He had two of them were men in their forties who had no prior history of heart disease, but they both suddenly died. When the autopsy results came back. It was found that both these patients arteries or clogged the third patient was a sixteen-year-old girl who also died of a massive clock in her heart. And this many people wonder about the high fat in the Atkins diet situation. I mean, three, healthy people, all dropping dead. And the thing they had in common was their diet. May be only eating red meat butter and cheese came with a price. So does the Atkins diet do it promises? Multiple reports exist saying two different things slow carb diet is great for your health are the report say it's really bad and we'll never we'll never know for Sure, because of empirical data wasn't even tracked on the diet and tell him late 2000's which was years after Robert Atkins dying, but no matter what you think, the Atkins diet was a success in a number of ways, but it further allege the creation of more and more fad diets. So as the 1980s came so did the beginning of yet another itll body. Is it an ideal supposed to be like the best version of something? It's almost as if there's no right way to have a body right now. Here. We are again, striving for the ideal, but there was one person in the 80s who wanted to find a way to make diet culture, more empowering for women. She had actually been around for a while, but the way she arrived, unexpected iconic amazing. So let's give a warm welcome to Miss Jane, Fonda that came out. Not really. I would like to be Starstruck die and it would have to pass when a drink really quick. Hold on. Certain people just make my life so much easier. I don't know what I'd do without him. I'm so happy that I can say I have a team of people in expert to help me with dark history cuz let me tell you it's it's a lot of work. It's so much work, you know, it's like if you own a growing business and need to hire, ZipRecruiter makes hiring so much easier because they do the work for. You can try it for free history. ZipRecruiter uses its powerful technology to find and match the right candidates up with your job. So you can easily review. These recommended candidates and invite. Your top choice is to apply. Additionally, ZipRecruiter has a complete Suite of tools that make it easy to filter review and write your candidates four out of five employer to post on ZipRecruiter, get a quality can do it within the first day. So, no wonder ZipRecruiter is the number one rated hiring site based on G2 satisfaction ratings, as of January 1st, 2022. In fact, the hardest thing you have to do, is to remember the special. URL ziprecruiter.com, dark history. That's where you go to try zip, recruiter for free. Once again. Ziprecruiter.com. / dark history, d. A r k, h i s t o r. Y ZipRecruiter the smartest way to hire. It probably. Sounds like I'm being a little hard on diet culture. There's nothing wrong with trying to eat healthy and take care of your body, but it can lead to some really dangerous things. If taken too far, or if you take bad advice, like smoking cigarettes and eating an apple. I mean, come on, but I do want to spend a minute talking about Jane Fonda who saw how damaging the culture could be for women and decided to turn that shit on his head and she did this all by accident. Jane Fonda was born December 21st 1937 in New York City. Her father was a legendary Hollywood actor, which had a bit of trouble like a troubled upbringing when she was 12 her mom, commits suicide in a psychiatric hospital, but nobody told I told Jane she didn't find out until she read about it in a magazine. Could you imagine with just her dad who historians say was emotionally distant and demanding, and wanted Jane to be perfect. Whatever. That is at all costs, when Jane was a teenager. The model. And here you are kin appeared on the cover of Vogue twice and 1958. She attended Lee Strasberg Actors Studio, where she discovered that, she loved acting soon. Agents took notice and she started acting on stage and screen for like the next few decades starring in some pretty iconic films, but in 1978, when Jane was 41, she was running in high heels platform shoes to a film set when she fell and broke her, ankle, Jane, didn't know what to do. And normally she did like ballet type exercise to stay in shape for the bad. Ankle. She need to like figure something else out fast. She discovered an exercise class in Century City, California run by a woman named Lenny Kasdan, you specialize in a type of exercise that didn't require your feet at all movements backed by music. But without your feet by using Lenny's technique, Jane could do aerobics and strengthening exercises with these chain called. The class of Revelation saying, quote. I entered so-called adult life at a time when challenging physical exercise was not offer to women now, along with 40 other women. I found myself moving nonstop for an hour and a half, an entirely new face. But this gave Jane the idea to go bigger, if Jayden could actually help women feel empowered and she had the money and means to make that happen. Well shit, you know, why not show in May of 1979 Jane and Lenny teamed up to open James Workout Studio in Beverly Hills. Now, Jane was usually teaching the classes in person. And this was like an obvious draw 6 days a week. Every week, the studio saw 3000 or more women passing through just to find Justin work out with with Jane Fonda having bigwig Hollywood. Agent and companies can knocking wanting to franchise a business, but Jane had a better idea. What if I wrote a book, so that's what she did. In November of 1981, Jane Fonda's workout book with release detailing, James fitness, program. It included chapters on nutrition Health and Beauty as well as demonstrations of the exercises for the book also contains some of James life story, which was the biggest hit with her audience. I mean, by 1982 Jane Fonda's workout book. Became number one for over six months, on the top 10 New York Times non-fiction bestsellers list becoming known as the exercise book for women soon. Jane expanded into exercise videos, more blocks and TV appearances. You know, that that phrase feel them burn. That was Jane Jane managed to tap into a gold mine, a female frustration, according to one writer because Where Jane there were few places for women to work out, safely or even know which exercises to do. There had always been the stigma for women working out. Jane once said that she overheard a man say, quote, women weren't supposed to sweat. I still believe that to this day, like I, that's why I don't work out. That's why I asked you, if you tell myself. Anyways, but this was why she became obsessed with exercise today. Jane is still around. I hope you are aware of that, as an actress activist and exercise guru and she's one of the best examples of somebody who can like, find the positive side of diet, culture reclaim it but you know what they say, Nothing Gold Can Stay. We can't have anything nice because they even James story has a downside. She recently acknowledged. She's battled bulimia for most of her adult life. Most people think bulimia is a young. The East but that's not necessarily the case. More more middle-aged women are dealing with bulimia and anorexia and binge eating. In fact, the number is on the rise. It's estimated that there has been an 84% increase in Eating Disorders in women. Over thirty-five since 2001 right around the corner from the height of Jane success. In the exercise world was the 1990s which saw ever turn for the 1920s. Flapper. Bod style only this time. The buy-sell had a more dangerous name. Oh, I was obsessed with this as a young lad. I was obsessed with his eyes. Like it's early. Teenager. I was so bad because this is where heroin Chic this style comes into fashion, bitch. I'm still kind of low-key obsessed with that. We're going to take a pause for an ad break really quick. Did you know that Netflix just recently raised their prices which is so unfair because they hide thousands of shows and movies from you based on your location. Did you know that you could cancel your subscription in protest, or you could be smart about it, and make sure you're getting your full money is worth by using expressvpn. Like I do that. What's on Netflix in your country is completely different. From what someone may see and the UK, you know, when I use express VPN, I can control, which country has to think. I'm in expressvpn has over 90 countries to choose from. So you will not run out of stuff to watch and if you get bored just switch over to another country. It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia. It's not on Netflix, but with just one tap of a button expressvpn lets me change my location to the UK just so I can watch it now. And the best part is, it's not just for Netflix. You can use express VPN to unlock shows on other streaming services to, I like to use it to watch true crime, documentaries, like forensics, the real CSI on BBC iPlayer. It's free and only available to people in the UK and me expressvpn even smart TVs. So you can watch your shows on the big screen with zero suffering. So be smart. Get your money's worth at expressvpn.com dark history. Don't forget to use my link so you can get 3 extra months free. That's expressvpn expressvpn dark history. Expressvpn.com dark history to learn more. So we're in the 90s flannel boomboxes MTV, super cool dude. At this point in history, diet culture has sunk its teeth into American culture. Beauty ideals have come and gone from impossibly small waist, huge titties and whatever in between by the early nineties, the fashion industry was in a bit of a golden age. It was a decade of grunge and Calvin Klein and the slip dress and Hammer pants, but it was also the decade that introduced won the most dangerous developments and diet culture ever heroin Chic with Heroin Chic. Well, kind of exactly what it sounds like it. It's a look used to describe women who are drastically. Underweight with pale skin, dark circles, under their eyes and a slightly androgynous, fashion sense. Essentially. It's a style to mimic the body of a heroin addict. The phrase, heroin Chic actually comes from Model named Gia carangi. Who was addicted to heroin nausea. Over here was one of the biggest super models in the world and was featured on the covers of the French British, and Americans felt Publications because of her addiction. Her arms became so covered in heroin needle marks that despite airbrushing. The marks were visible in one of her Vogue, spreads know. When gaea first started using heroin, her heroin send look, was appealing to some designers. So they wanted to recreate the look with other models and it was a look that echoed into the 90s hitting all the major runways in the world d'angio, but when heroin became cheaper and more widely available in the 90s hair, when she really took off in the country, now, not just Rich, supermodels could look heroines in. So the very idea of doing heroin became sexy to a lot of us. It was further popularized by models, like, Kate Moss, who isn't known to have done heroin herself, but for a Time perfectly embody, the heroin Chic. Look now, in fact, Kate and models like her are said to have called themselves. Gia's girls. Before heroin Chic came along, the fashion industry was focused on physically healthy, supermodels with a full figure, but in the 90s there was too sudden push against a body type and thousands of Weekly Magazine started publishing articles with pictures of heroin Chic women promising ways to become a size zero. And they weren't saying, like, do heroin which they should have just said that. Honestly, the truth is that the Articles were bullshit because Studies have found that most of the women in this. We're actually just not eating anything at all some woman started using heroin heavily and when they did eat, it was said that some models a tissue. Virtue fend, off the hunger and in a call back to earlier, a lot of women start replacing food with cigarettes. So, welcome back cigarette diet, High. I mean, when I was 18, I start smoking, cigarettes, and really stopped eating because of Mary-Kate Olsen and Kate, so bad, would not recommend anyways, so I mean if that sounds really bad for you, that's because it was, it has been we're just never good enough. Are we most of these women were suffering from an eating disorder? Many of us know as anorexia nervosa know. Maybe you've heard of one of your friends saying something like, oh my God. She's like skinny, or maybe you have this idea that anorexic is just another word for thin and actuality. Anorexia is a full flash mental health disorder, its symptoms may include refusing to eat all together. Anorexia comes from a distorted body image, mean that the person you see in the mirror, is not the person. Everyone else sees and some have described it like a vampire looking in the mirror, except instead of nobody being there. It's only your flaws looking back at you. What are the highest death rates for young women in the 1990s was related to anorexia? And researchers say the biggest reason anorexia is a problem is because it seems easy to rationalize. Like if I don't eat I won't gain weight, right, but it's really not that simple and undiagnosed. Anorexia can completely take over your life and If we can even tell you what are the most frightening yet, sad, sadly common examples of anorexia over taking. Somebody's life. Is the story of a girl named Izzy Harris. What is he was a young girl? She took ballet but was teased by the other girls because she had more body hair than them. So they called her a gorilla for her hairy arms, and legs. And I said, her eyebrows were big bushes. So, when she was nine, she found a pair of tweezers and puffed, almost all of the hair on her body, including her eyebrows. This kind of anxiety about her body stuck with is Eve well into her teen years and one day, she noticed that she was a little taller and bigger than the other girls her age. So when she was 15 years old she went on as he became obsessed with exercise and calorie counting. She started cutting her food and take down daily first. It was fast food, then bread, sugar, dairy. Finally fat. But she didn't stop there because soon, she started eating only one fruits and one vegetable per meal. I didn't matter to Izzie that she was losing weight everyday, because whenever she looked in the mirror, she didn't see any difference. So is he decided to cut down to just one meal per day, but you know, who did. See a difference is his family. They sent her to a psychiatrist who diagnosed her with anorexia and bulimia, which immediately worried her family. But all this did was confused Izzy. She said, quote, I was always a slightly chubby girl who never said, no to Desert and hated exercise anorexia and bulimia were two words. I would never associate with myself and quote. So, is he decided the doctor was wrong? And she kept up with her exercise and diet and it wasn't until is he has lost half of her weight and she looked in the mirror. And finally saw what her disease had done. The first thing she noticed was her blue, fingernails attached to hands? So bony. She said they look like a skeleton. Then she noticed that she had empty patches on her scalp. Where hair used to be rotten teeth from vomiting from her food and gray skin. Is he immediately called her psychiatrist and admitted she had a problem. So her doctor helped her get to an anorexia recovery program. Well, is he was in recovery? She scoured the internet, looking for stories from people who have recovered from eating disorders, which you couldn't find any. She found horror story after Horror, Story of a few stories about people were covering to live a happy life. Now this actually became Izzy's primary motivation to get better according to her quote. I could be that recovery story that gave hope and motivation to other people in my position. The people who sought recovery was impossible and to quote is he started small by eating three meals a day and eventually Adding Instax. She started branching out her diet, by eating foods that scared her before, like pasta and bread and olive oil. Then she deleted the calorie tracker on her phone and start seeing all her friends. She had pushed away at the height of her sickness. But 2018 is he fully grow her hair back recovered her nails and gain the way she lost back, but she still considers herself and Recovery. She describes herself as being haunted by the ghost of her to store her painful. Thoughts, that creep up on her with spring can lose weight must lose weight today is he is an advocate for people suffering from eating disorders, who shares her story. To let people know. They don't have to suffer alone. Her mantras are that mental illness. Does not make you a failure, and to embrace your flaws and strive for body acceptance. Is he admits that? She hasn't reached the point of self-love yet, but that's okay. Because she's reached a point of self-acceptance. I know and a very important one. If you think you or someone you love is suffering from anorexia bulimia, or just an eating disorder. I cannot stress this enough, but please contact your doctor but also know that you're not alone and you can recover their tongues of organizations out there to help with a national eating disorder Association, which I will link down below if you're curious. Or, you know, I got you with the rise of social media. There has been a bit of a shift and celebrating more diapers wipes in the media and fashion. No, seriously because of social media word, spread about things like the fat acceptance movement, which inspired the birth of the body, positivity movement and this movement began in 1996, but really took off in 2012. The key focus of body positivity was to challenge unrealistic beauty standards for women and the message being all bodies are beautiful. This movement was so successful in raising awareness that some companies are now adopting body positive messages into their advertising, because they want to profit off of it. But whatever. Now it's not perfect. And there's definitely a lot of work that still should be done, but I can acknowledge that it's a shift in the right direction, right? We can acknowledge that. Yes, but let's make one thing. Clear being resistant to diet culture is not being resistant to taking care of yourself, according to researchers. It's the opposite because resisting diet culture is realizing that the one person who can really make you healthy is well. You instead of constantly policing your body or comparing yourself to what you see in the media. You can instead focus on making yourself feel and look good. However, you want on one side of the spectrum. We have fad diets that work for some people but not others. Like the Atkins diet and the only other side we have icons, like Jane Fonda, who sent her female empowerment above all else, but also fell victim to how damaging diet culture can be with her own struggles. Smack dab in the middle movements, like black is beautiful or body positivity. I call for self-acceptance. My point is, there are so many ways to take care of yourself, and there's no such thing as one-size-fits-all. And I know that's easier said, than done. You know, I could sit here and say, love yourself, but I also feel like that's very, I hate saying that, to be honest, because I personally also struggle with loving myself. It's not that easy when we're dealing. Hundreds of years of people telling us how we should look sizes. Constantly changing. I mean, as upon as upon ads, Diets and Fastenal this, like it's going to take time for us to really unlearn all of this and I don't even know if we're going to get there. I think if we're aware of it though, like, if we're aware of what's going on. I can help us kind of move forward and not and see through the toxicity. And that's what I kind of help with this episode is that you are aware. And I hope you know that you are good enough. Just the way you are. I'm speaking to myself too. Cuz trust me, bitch. I have my days every fucking day. Anyways, don't be so hard on yourself. Well, thank you so much for learning with me today. Remember, I'll be free to ask questions to get the whole story because we all deserve that. Now, I'd love to hear your guys's reactions to chase story. So make sure to use the hashtag dark history, so, I can follow along. Join me over on my YouTube, where you can watch these episodes on Thursday after the podcast years, and also catch my murder mystery and makeup, which drops on the mud. Hope you have a wonderful rest of your day. You make good choices, and I'll be talking to you next week. Could buy dark. History is an audio. Boom. Original. This podcast is executive-produced by Bailey. Sarian, Kim Jacobs, Duniya, McNeely. From three yards at Simpson and clear Turner from wheelhouse DNA. Produced by Alexi given research provided by Tricia Johnston and Jed. Book out writers, checkbook out, Joey, Caputo, and Kim gagan edited by Jim Belushi shop by the Boswell. Marooned way special. Thanks to our historical Consultants Dariana, Guerrero, and Virgie Tovar, and I'm your host me Bailey. Sarian, it's me, Jessica. Thank you. Bye.
