You've been thinking about starting your podcast. You've been obsessing about the idea for months and years. Yeah, or you've been procrastinating it or you're overwhelmed by all the different technical stuff that goes into starting a podcast. Well in this video we're going to show you the four different ways. You can start your podcast. This year's here. Hey, welcome to the Pod, sounds cool. I'm Studio. Steve and I'm Veronica and we're podcast coaches podcast producers and we've helped dozens of clients and huh.

Words of students to get some really amazing results, their podcast, and we want to do the same for you. In this video. We're going to show you the four different ways. You can start your podcasts from the very basic to a professional level. And we're going to show you also the pros and cons of each option. Yeah, and by the end of this video, you're going to know everything you need to know in order to start your podcast today. We are going to cover a lot in this video. So make sure you stick around until the end. And for those of you who like to skip ahead, we've left some time stamps in the description below of each of the topics will be.

Before we get into the different ways that we can create a podcast is important to know how podcasting Works. How do we get the audio files from our phones? Or computers all the way up to Google podcast, Apple podcast and Spotify. Yeah. This is one of the many things that confuses a lot of people about podcasting is that the podcast directories like Apple and Google and Spotify. They don't actually hold your MP3 file. You actually need to upload your MP3 file to What's called the podcast host. A podcast host, is a service that holds information for your podcast in your pocket.

Has episodes and holds your mp3, your episodes descriptions all the information, regarding your podcast, your podcast, cover art, and your episode artwork. Yeah. And to help us make a little more sense to you. This is actually a screenshot of us uploading, one of our pod sound School podcast, episodes to our podcast. Host simple cast. We add a title, we add episode-description some episode artwork, and some key words. Once we update it, here. It is. Updated to all of the podcast directories via something called an RSS feed. Once you have at least one episode.

In distributed your podcast to the different podcast, directories used in this RSS link. This link will go to the different podcast directories and it will automatically update your podcast every time you post a new episode. So hopefully that helps the whole thing makes sense to you a little bit more. Don't worry? Just get a podcast host and it'll all make sense as you start uploading episodes. And before we get into the four ways that you could start your podcast today because we're podcast coaches. We couldn't let you just jump into starting a podcast without at least sharing three really important.

Oops that you keep in mind before starting your podcast. Yes, because we want to set you up for Success. So tip number one would be to do a preliminary name-check. You don't want to use the same name that all the podcasts are using. You want to be original and also, you want your name to be easy to spell and easy to pronounce. And tip number two, is take the time to listen to some other podcasts that are similar in topic and find ways that you can bring your secret sauce and that you can be different and stand out. I like to make a list of what I like about the podcast. And what

Don't like about the podcast. Bad wouldn't want you to get this courage. If you find that there are other podcasts doing what you're thinking about doing, remember that this is your podcast and you're going to bring your personality and your creativity, and your uniqueness, to this project. And tip Number 3, make a list of all of your passions and all of the topics that you be interested in covering. Sometimes. It's good to make sure that you have a topic. You could talk about for hours on end that you would never get bored of and make a list of all of those things that can be really helpful for coming up with episode ideas, and for your podcast idea in general.

Neural and take a minute to share your podcast idea in the comments below. We're curious to know what you guys are planning. And if you need more help with finding the right topic for you. I have this video right here taking you through the exact steps. I take my clients and students to find the right topic for them. Now. Let's talk about the different ways. You can start your podcast so you can decide which one is right for you. Number one. You can start your podcast using your smartphone. Yes, and this is a really popular option that a lot of people are getting into podcast using. We recommend two apps for this that you can get.

Your smartphone, either Apple or Android phones and that is Anchor FM or spreaker Studio. Either app allows you to record your podcast directly into the app. And then from there distributed to the different podcast, directories. Both apps have a lot of really cool options and little bells and whistles on them. The anchor app is our favorite and it allows you to do minor edits. You can cut out big chunks in the middle of your performance. If it wasn't good. You can also trim the beginning in the end, but that's about it with the editing. So it's important to know that you're not.

Really going to be able to do any advanced editing or any kind of professional editing or control any of the eqs or the compression or any of that fancy professional stuff actually on your phone and as you can imagine the microphones on your phone aren't as great sounding as some of the professional podcasting microphones out there. However, this is a good solution. If you are new to podcasting and you don't want to invest a lot of money and equipment, and you're not sure if podcasting is your thing. So this is a low risk, low investment way for you to start your podcast. Yeah, and

Actually be surprised with the results you can get. Lastly, the other really cool thing about the anchor app is it comes with a bunch of royalty free music, you can use and it's owned by Spotify. So right, when you publish your first episode usually, within minutes, your podcast will go live on Spotify. There are also many accessories adapters and USB microphones. You can plug into your smartphone to make the sound quality. Even better. Yes, and we have a whole playlist that we did all about smartphone podcasting that you can find right here. If you think this is the option that you want to start with. And now, let's move on to option.

Number two, and that's using your computer and a USB microphone. Yeah. In this is probably the most popular option for independent podcasters because USB microphones, are affordable, and they sound really good and you don't need to get an audio interface. All you have to do is plug them into your computer and you're ready to go. So our big to recommendations for USB microphones are the Samson q2u and the Audio Technica atr2100 X. Both of these are tried and tested. Great sounding microphones, and they're also upgradable when we move.

On to option number three, which were not to yet. And in addition to a USB microphone. You are also going to need to download an audio editing software onto your computer. There's a lot of different options, ranging from free to very expensive. Here. My all-around best. Top choice for independent podcasters is Reaper, and you could download Reaper for free and try it, free for 60 days. And then it's a one-time $60. After that, now here on YouTube. You also hear a lot of people recommend audacity, which is a free d. Aw, but I would really

Ali recommend that you steer clear from audacity. It really just causes a lot of headache and it's worth the $60 to just get a better D, aw, from the beginning if you're stuck and and really want to stick to a free option, I would say garage bands better and then even better than GarageBand would be Pro Tools. First, but Pro Tools, first takes a lot longer to learn than Reaper. So the way you set this up is pretty simple. In this illustration here Veronica's, using the Samsung q2u. She's going to plug it directly into the

Cuter, then all she has to do is open up Reaper, set up a track and press record. When she's done recordings. You can press stops, you can add recording, she can make all sorts of events edits. She can add music, and then, finally, she can export this recording as an MP3 to share with her podcast host. I don't want you to feel intimidated by day, W is or the fact that you have to edit your podcast. I consider myself technically challenged and I learned how to edit a podcast and I've seen my students and clients learning how to edit their own podcast. Yeah.
Really don't get discouraged. Anybody can learn how to use a d. Aw. You're just going to have to take a few hours to get familiar with how it works. And at first, it can seem like you're moving so slow and it can be painful and you want to pull out your hair, but just stick with it, a little practice and you will be up and running in no time. I've spent many years teaching people how to use the AWS, and I've developed a really fun learning style that cuts through all the BS and just teaches you what you need to know right now to get started. We have some videos here on our Channel, you can watch about Reaper and I also put together a free 40 minute training.

All about editing a podcast and getting going in Reaper. You can find that by going to pod sound school.com training and grab your seat for that free training option. Number three, you can use them, XLR microphone and an audio interface and this is where we get into professional podcasting. Yeah, and this is probably also where we get into people being intimidated by podcasting but it's really not that complicated, once you break it down. So the first thing you're going to need is an XLR microphone. We call it an XLR microphone because that's the output of the

Microphone is an XLR cable is what you would plug into it for this. We have to top picks for those on a budget. We really like the Shure sm58. This is a classic vocal microphone and the next we really like the Shure sm7b. This is a really classic podcasting microphone used by many professional podcasters. Once you've chosen a microphone, then you'll need to choose an audio interface. There are tons of audio interfaces. Many that sound really good. Ranging from pretty cheap to very expensive, but my top recommendation.

Podcasters of all budgets is the focusrite Scarlett to I to this has two inputs. You can record two microphones at the same time. But Scarlett also has a single input option. That's even cheaper. If you know that you're only ever going to be using one microphone or it has a 4 input option. If you're going to be using more than two microphones. So in this illustration Veronica's going to use the Scarlet to I2 and simply plug it into the USB input on her computer. Now, all she needs to do is plug a microphone into the focusrite. So she'll use an XLR cable put one in.

End into the microphone and the other end of the cable. She'll plug into the focusrite and you'll see she chose input number one and right next to input. Number one. There's a gain knob. This knob allows us to adjust the volume or the gain of the microphone. Usually with Dynamic microphones. We're going to want to crank this knob pretty much as high as it goes. And that's a good place to start. Now much like she did with the USB microphone. All she has to do is open up Reaper, set up, a track and press record, and she's recording some sweet podcast vocals. Now,

Move on to number for our last option. Video podcasting, video podcasting is becoming more and more popular among podcasters. You are already recording your voice and you have your podcast set up. So, the only thing you need to do is to out a camera. This will allow you to record different videos that can go on different platforms. They can go here on YouTube or on your social media and it's the ultimate content repurposing for your podcast episodes. Yes, but this is also the most complex way to podcast but we couldn't let you go without telling you more about it.

So this really just requires 3 more elements to your podcast set up. The first one like Veronica mentioned is a camera. Most people will start with just using the camera on their phone. We have very impressive cameras on our phones nowadays or the camera on your laptop or on your computer. And then you can upgrade to a webcam or a more professional camera. Then you're also going to want to pick up some lighting. We really like ring Lights, ring lights blast, all the Shadows off of your face and help you to look more youthful and beautiful. And that can help you to feel more confident on camera and then

After that, you're also going to need to pick up some video editing software to actually be able to edit the video together. But this is a great way like Veronica said, to repurpose your podcast and it can be a bit intimidating. It's a great option, but we don't want you to get too overwhelmed with recording your podcast and recording video at the same time, especially if you're new to both the important thing is for you to start to start podcasting to get into podcasting. Its you put your ideas out there and to start creating content and there you go pots key. I know that was a lot of information but don't get discouraged.

Courage. Don't wait any longer. Don't put it off? No more procrastination. Come out of the gates with your podcast. You've got us here to help you if you haven't subscribed to our Channel yet, do so. Now we post really fun podcasting videos, every week here on our Channel. Also, don't forget that we've left the links to all the gear. We talked about the microphones, the USB microphones, everything you can find the links in the description of this video. There's a lot more that goes into a podcasting, like, branding and promotion. And also, to be able to have an audience even before launching your podcast.

And for this, we have a free training and it's called the smart way to launch your podcast. You can snag your seed by going to podcasting smart.com. And before we go to things, not be the nested Lotteria and don't forget to like And subscribe to our Channel. Happy casting Amigos, but let me have a drink. There are many accessories shoes. Do you want a pair of shoes? A few years? There are no chips.

Should we shake? Yes.

