 So now what animated Christmas comedy with a touch of a feminist agenda? This is going to be awful. Isn't it? I wanted to explain myself a man's plans. Sam Sam. Splint mixing it with whatever. There's there's something there. Yep. It's awful. Bah humbug. This video is sponsored by nordvpn, connecting to know what's virtual private Network. Protects your online activities from the noise of governments have his and your internet service provider. You can also use it to change your digital location by choosing from one of thousands of Superfly service all over the world by doing. So you can unlock content on streaming sites that isn't available in your region, which has been extremely useful for me, personally. Let me tell you as well as got to run Regional pricing differences to get yourself, the best deals while shopping online. It's simple and easy to use allows for multiple connections on up to six devices. With just one accounts can be accessed, worldwide operates on a no loss. Policy comes with a built-in kill switch to keep you even safer and has a whole host of other useful features and benefits to click the link in the description will go to nordvpn.com cynical reviews to get yourself. A big discount on a two-year plan with a risk-free 30-day. Money-back guarantee. I'm just for you guys, you can get the best deal. Download VPN with an extra month, free exclusively for those who sign up through YouTube, and you'll be helping to support me and My Shadow by doing. So that's nordvpn.com cynical reviews to get more off of your internet today. Merry Christmas. You beautiful Bostitch. I come bearing, the greatest of gifts, Fringe CJ. Why'd it? Take you so long to get a Christmas video? Because burnout, burnout sucks. I see, imma give it a 10 out of 10. Just when I thought the prince would take the title for the worst. Comedy of 2021 the song from the year itself, which is been a black, Epic Proportions page. Came in clutch to snatch Victory from the jaws of Victory. You already have the title Heights, Bo you didn't even need to do this. So Why? But just to rub salt in the wound at the end of this curse of, yeah, they had to put out. What is actually the worst comedy of 2021. Santa ink something about it already. Probably the only thing you've heard about it when it came out, the reaction was a resounding no, and it currently stands as the lowest rated TV series on IMDb comedy trailer since Ghostbusters. 2016. On the comparison is pretty out. We've already talked about this show without talkin about this reaction, and what inspired it only have to wait until the dreaded swamp of politics in order to do that. So, let's just get out of the way. If you don't care about that, aspect of the discussion skip to hear, I wouldn't blame you. Fasten your seatbelts. It's going to be a hell of a show. Reduce volume starring comedian, Sarah Silverman, and Seth, Rogen. Something tells the story of candy, the head elf in a Cobra toys north pole. He wants to become the first female on Jewish Santa taking over from Rogan's incumbents, spoilers. If you give a fuck off the many trials and tribulations. She doesn't get the nomination. I just wants to run a disgruntled staff. Have something to strive for better conditions. They have are getting her old job, except this time. She has sent his balls in a vise. Remember I know everything so I own you fat, man in the North Pole. That's pretty much how the market today. So it's a lot like 6 session with else. Especially with elves. I thought we sold it leaving. The song questions, about one else would even be Jewish tool. The trailer was pretty out front with the angle to show intended, to take many Santa Clauses throughout history. Some was loved others, but the position of Santa has mostly been a white man's game. Crazy things have got to change. Yes. That's what everyone wants to hear about it, Christmas contentious issues. As if we don't hear enough about those everyday, as we do scroll through, read it while taking a way in about 6 million different ways. Because my criticism, an elf is even become a code word for gym, in some circles. Apparently. She usually do, most of it was just edgy shitposters from places, like full Shine. The weather was actually a campaign to do this exact thing. This one's pretty funny. Funny. I'm not trying to provoke an angry reaction from you because that's even funnier to them. But that's exactly what Rogan is Silverman. Did they basically gave them what they wanted and in the process made it look like Criticism of the show was motivated by racial hatred. Well slap my ass and call me a white supremacist. There's no way that's going to get taken out of context. Discounting. You'll be as big as I do. Think the reaction was a little bit overblown, but still mostly Justified for a number of reasons, aside from the trailer, monumentally on funny, but we'll get to that. Like I said, no one wants to hear about controversial issues in that Christmas media, you'll taking something that's meant to unite people, to, at least some extent in these troubled times, and you're making it divisive. That's going to rub people the wrong way. There's no getting around that. I also think people are sick of everything being politicize nowadays. I don't blame them when he see something like this. It's just Ali rolling. What is that need to be a female Santa what's wrong with Santa being an old white, dude? That's kind of important to His Image, you know, I told because I don't think of anything better. I just feel so unnecessary. I highly doubt that. Anyone was clamoring for a gobo story set in the North Pole and I think people resent being lectured to on moral issue. Boy, celebrities, who are they have a history of doing, educate themselves, or who seem just a little out of touch with you, everyday, person's experiences. And when people say they don't put politics into a ex. They don't mean it don't explode. Preschool, themes or ideas or related subject matter. They mean, it don't show your personal politics and on face is in your Creations, which is exactly what scientific does. Are we always on Thanksgiving time, schedule. The whole holiday is based on an imperialist lie. They couldn't resist. And jokes about American politics. Auntie vox's and white supremacists in a show about Santa. Can kids believe in you than they do in vaccines or the Holocaust a great for us until I should hope, they don't even know what the hell you going to wait until that some hair on that chest before you hit them with a heavy stuff, you know, maybe the wacky. Even if someone who has no patience for Auntie, voxel racist, bulshit, this is grown and juicing a reference to AOC for some reason, is demographics going to be like a o c Stefan my balls Mommy. No, I don't actually mind. I just putting that politics into that creations as long as they follow the age of Mantra of, don't get up, which well, with shot his so, yeah, they picked it up. If you're going to put messages or your role in politics into your media. You'd better do it with some subtlety, which we've already seen. They're incapable of all. You need to make sure that it's implemented with some skill which again it isn't the show isn't even good at expressing. The progressive message that it's trying to and just comes across as very pondering and environmental. Responsible. Wow, this is spank material for me of sunset is a white man's game. But the next Suns, it was going to be a black man before he quit to work. I'm a sudden, I'm kinda never. Once face is discrimination because of her race race never becomes relevant. So why even mention it? Unless your virtue signalling or just trying to be deliberately controversial. I'm so happy for Timmy that totally uninteresting, white male choice that will do nothing for this company. Shut the fuk up. Stop being a parking, there have been women prime minister's women presidents, but there is never ever been a woman. Santa Claus crazy things have got to change again. Why, why is this so bad? When she says this, that's been no indication that the men are doing a bad job. So why does it matter except to take off a diversity box? We supposed to just take mine bad as a given. T, minus 30 until a vagina. Finally sits in the red suit or another pianist. Who knows why they phrasing it like that. It sounds. So, gross address, the wire female sounds like criticism. But of course, they do it through a straw. Man. I'm leaving male Explorer, so u.s. Presidents or serial killers. Millennial. Oh my God, shut the fuck up. She wants to break through the glass ceiling, which is fair enough in principle. But aside from some dismissive comments from her pigs in the company board. What did she think? She's handing out candy canes and they turn out to be some contem pot. It's not like this stuff doesn't happen. But this sounds like one of those outdated sexual harassment. Training videos, word, around the office is, you got a fat cock. Yes. I do. I've got a fat cock to Maybe we should rub your facts together sometime. But anyhow, so much from this, has almost no resistance from the supposed patriarchy and almost everyone is supportive of her going for it. Especially Santa who is a massive virtue signal or I'm the most progressives and I'm a real change agent on an ally, which I can't label myself. As but I didn't label that by others. How awesome would I be chosen? The first black successor and then the first woman successor of black successor. That was a big deal. If you can't do this. I know it gets pretty nauseating and he's a Jew to, she takes off two boxes woman and you. Holy. Holy, a woman and a Jew. Legendary is a trying to take the piss out of him for doing this, then it's pretty hypocritical since the show is a hold of the exact same thing, but that we go, the rubber tree comments, aren't great, but they could have gone much harder with That was the uncle they were going for. Is this really the best? I could do an in the first few episodes. They really have to reach to show you how hard done by she is. But you're actually inspiring me to like make Santa ink safe from predators reports, woman's remains Scared Silent. So you just punched him in the face with zero consequences. How are you? Not safe already. She goes to tell Santa, she wants to run face. Excessive. He invites her into his previously met only party weather over. Is he doing manly things like shaving together? I don't know about that one, but let's just go with it. And she's like, nah, I'm out. The only thing they did in that scene, was this guy had a terrible understanding of female announcer me. I don't want to be sued if I slip up and make her and fertile. He needs the hair and stay warm. And she's the one that didn't want to stay. This is the level of self-victimization were wrong in this kind of story. You were supposed to sympathize with the protagonist which makes the coolest see more worthy by proxy, but unfortunately that's almost impossible. It doesn't help that Silverman has a role, the grating voice and not grating an endearing way like say Gilbert Gottfried. Stay strong. Part, holy hell, is it, you want it? You have to let her do Voice. Work should be executed for legal purposes. That was a joke when she screams in excitement. It sounds like a pig being castrated. At least I ignored you. I suppose despite that annoying, high-pitched voice of yours. I believe, they'll listen, but counties personality is just as abrasive. This feminist icon is both a hypocrite, massive piece of shit. And just so, you know, the women of the North Pole, make fun of one of your dicks. Have fun wondering whose it is to do for the job of CEO at a nice to base company, but she refuses because the previous CEO said that she was ousted because she had an abortion or hundreds of abortions because she's a rabbit. That's the joke, but the company. Mine just says all that was a lie, and she immediately changes her mind and never questions it, so I guess her morals. Don't mean shit, my body. My choice didn't care about it. 20 minutes ago after she struggles to win over the board of sunset in Kauai being one of the guys she pretends to be weaker than she is in order to appeal to that protective instincts and get a head waiter. The fairer sex, right? She even admits it to Santa and he doesn't care. He's like cool, good for you for playing the game. When Santa goes into a coma and she gets appointed. The temporary sign says, she hopes that he died, so she can keep her position, which is a pretty volatile part of the job. Even offers to let her run things behind the scenes, which is more than reasonable, but this is her response. Go fuc yourself. She then flies off to have a stroke and kills a pigeon just because it was annoying her. What's the Volvo is when she accidentally hits a nice whole day with her car and then leaves him to do in the snow so that her friend can have his job if I did something really bad, but ultimately and it's for the greater good. Jesus fucking Christ. If your main character isn't worth giving a shit about then, you'll cause is also lost. Oh, and they also have not one, but two Reindeer characters Roblox stereotypes. Which is funny considering how Progressive the show considers itself, solely know. It's pretty terrible and ham fisted. It getting its point across. This is how you don't do politics in media. You're not doing anyone. Any favors, you know, inspiring anyone and you patent yourselves on the back of the falling about how Progressive you. All is really Nothing Dire ring. Wow. Discussion went on longer than I had intended right now. The cancer is out of the way. We can move on to the good stuff. The comedy. Yeah, exactly. If you're going to face plump this, hard with your messages, you need to be funny enough to compensate. Well, I'm calling this, the worst comedy of 2021. So, how do you think that once I appreciate terrible comedy, about as much as I appreciate the leprosy and Sons Inc has all the Hallmarks of bad comedy? On leprosy. I really did try to give it a chance because no one wants to sit through a comedy and not laugh. And honestly, I would laugh at the dumbest shit, but I'm sorry to report that during its eight, twenty minute episodes. I lost exactly twice and it was less of a loss and more of a this joke from episode 1, which quote me off-guard, don't yell at me in front of your friends. I thought things were better between you guys since the baby. What do you mean? They are as did this joke from episode 3. Osama bin Laden. It's played off as a terrible joke, which it is, but this Christmas crack is star. Humor is better than 99% of all the jokes in the series, which should give you an idea of how bad they say is. Catching up on some porn, huh? Well, you need to finish, you know, looking at or whatever you doing down there, you know, just flapping your flaps. I can duck out, just let me know from the policy is not exactly a ringing. Endorsement kinds of sausage party will feel right at home while everyone else who wants to race them old wine with solenoid. Here's a scene from sausage party on the scene from son to hang side by side in order to perfectly demonstrate. This point break my asshole, everything we've ever known as if they're covered, polish it jacking off. And I'm just going to say the warning would have been Lube but he was held back, covering our eyes with their come. So come covered. We can't fucking see. So we are all chase this morning, super chafed. But this rash will go away just like Brett. Did it won't spread from our Nethers to cover our entire body. We will recover from this unlubricated fucking friend gave us is yet, another adult animated comedy that thinks that copious amounts of swearing and sexual references on gross-out humor of all themselves adults and funny, which they're not and it's the same kind of adult humor. You'll have heard countless times before, Oakwood of noxious of weird. Sexual exploits zainal. Yes. No, it's fine. It's just that to get my tongue in the right angle. I've just spread my legs look, a dog with drunkenness fart jokes wearing rudeness disguised as weights on. So on any of which might be fine occasionally in a proper context that makes them funny. But of course, that sprayed around so liberally that they quickly overstay, their welcome in the opening of the first episode of a swift 20 times in 20 seconds to let you know. Oh, yeah, we're in adults show. None of that Kitty stuff. They say the word bitch, 16 times in 1 minute that I heard of the phrase less-is-more, the launch amounts of for sex references, gratuitous nudity and sex scenes will also make your butthole, clench tighter than Scrooge's wallets. Oops, wrong hole. That way you tell your wife. I'll tell her my truth, which is that anal rocks. Just to give you an instance, of how this can work in, what episode of South Park, misses Garrison, and Xerxes, or about to go in for a romantic moment. And then abruptly comes to them passionately scissoring. It's this juxtaposition on the throwback to another scene in the episode that makes this funny and son, to think we have a scene. With one of the characters turns down another's, offer of a date, then it cuts to son to fucking his wife from behind while she just lies there and takes up these two scenes, have nothing to do with each other. So the juxtaposition doesn't work on these grunts. Stop playing before the scene transitions. So, you know, it's coming and quite a bit of the shock value gets lost. Haha, how so is the fact of the clothes is having sex. It's meant to be shocking and funny in and of itself, which it isn't. Because this is like the third time we've seen it, by this point, and that's just one example, you can, maybe get away without. Hey look, that will post his naked, how gross and funny is that Have better material like a character will come in, say they have sex the night before and that's the whole joke before. It's just liking any subtlety or intelligence. Of course. I get it. It's not subtle at all. I just called a groundbreaking material jokes about mrs. Claus sliding down, Sanchez chimney of the kind of thing. You'd expect to see in a boom is Christmas called in his reputation as the weed. Funny mind. If they only have son to get high. Once in the whole show, go to admire that restraint though. Actually, he doesn't twice, but that was in the final episode and by that point I wanted to off myself. So, and here's the thing, something's crude humor. It's adult interpretations of children. Subjects and subversive takes on. Lomas. His troops would have been considered shocking at one point. And would have had more impact due to that deliberate breaking of societal taboos, but everything it does as being long done by this point on the Market's saturated. What was causing Edge is now? Do on the material, just feel stale and uninteresting. But even if it wasn't style, it's poorly executed with all the jokes. For various different reasons. It's not like Delivery is, but at least, it would talk about the voice performance says, it's just that the jokes aren't funny or well-constructed. Even the most skilled comedians in the world couldn't polish these turds. Hey, I have a rape whistle. This is my consensual sex whistle. Where's my rape for him, So, that's not saying a lot, but much like other bad out of town. Am I to Comedy? Most of the characters have about two personality traits. I'm ninety-nine percent of the jokes will send to purely around those candies friend. Cookie is made of gingerbread, is a new mother and treats her husband like shit, and that's all of her jokes. Must be nice. I don't have dreams anymore because I don't ever sleep because for some reason I wanted to be a wife and mother. Sorry Fun Size. You know, I love you baby. Right? And he's all the friends. Goldy is a sassy black woman on horny for last night. And now, while I'm complaining is old and horny. Kandi's, mom is a terrible mother and horny. Is there somewhere? I can scrub the travel dust off my Beaver. Put a comb through my pubes County's. Teenage brother is an idiot. Catholic Church on just separated at Birth is very gay and also very horny, which is a bit of a stereotype. Okay. I have to shave every week. I'm talking about my genitals dumb dumb. It said gay thing. Yes. I am gay. Mrs. Claus is miserable and the subject of Santa's horniness. And the list goes on. It becomes so predictable and formulaic, that it was actually shocked when it's hard to make a different kind of joke or legal, murder is going to identify the jokes in order to critique them was actually quite difficult because a lot of the time, they were simply so unfunny that you wouldn't even consider them to be jokes as opposed to anything else in the script until you think. Wait, was that meant to be a joke? And then you realize that it was and you just kind of scratch your head and go What's occasionally they have, what could be a decent joke, but then they shoot themselves in the foot by ruining it. They might use it so much that it stops being funny at all as we've already seen. They might play out for so long that it stops being funny. There's a running joke about cookie eating herself, which rice is all sorts of questions. I don't want point. She's her husband's leg, grenade, my legs. They were blown off, its just a dream. His reaction could have been funny if you just woke up so like and screamed, but they make it go on too long by trying to answer the joke where it isn't necessary. They might add an extra lines where it would have been funny if I just left it at the punchline. 7, shut up, Goldie. I feel like this is my fault. Oops, this could have been funny because of how oblivious he is. If they just left it at his statements, but they just couldn't do that. They might explain all of a Mexico Minh trail on the joke that boy making it not funny. I know you're right. But do you really have to call me bitch every time you say something? Yes, bitch, because it's important to call you bitch, bitch, b flaunting. I'm to be a bit but sometimes the jokes just don't make sense. For example, how many ties of a Christmas lights is kind of funny because it fits with the setting but then there's a going playing snooker with bull balls. And of course they break, I'll get the joke, but he works in Christmas line. So surely he would know that they would break. So, why would he be playing with them at all? Sometimes they'll put forward something that they ashumet is a joke and it's structured like a joke. I may expect us to accept that it's a joke, but they haven't given us any reason or context for why it's funny. So we can't laugh because we literally don't understand why it's even a joke. His two examples. Curtis those An absolute poem. So the punchline is that the chicken is bae stood in its own fights, but what's funny about that and if it's not a joke, then why even included? Because it doesn't add anything. I tell you, his sister is dating an ornament. Everyone's freaking out about it. Again. This is clearly meant to be a joke, but why is him dating an ornament funny? Why would that make him freak out? Like, they don't give us any context and then that's just the multitude of jokes why the punch line isn't even funny? But I don't want to repeat myself too much as a result of all these blunders. This comedy ends up being painfully unfunny, and those incredibly cringe-worthy. It feels like one big in junk. I feel like you have to be there in the writers room. Having fun and huffing paint. Alongside them in order to find this amusing. He's there at least a well-written story, Benito Vista Klingon too. Well, the officer isn't just a know. It's a go fuc yourself. The song from the total failure of its humor. The show is really boring. The main character is obnoxious and unsympathetic. So it's very difficult to get invested in what happens to her since almost all of the narrative States revolve around her struggles to achieve her goals because we don't care about those goals. We have no reason to keep watching and as I said before, the other characters are mostly flats and also irritating, so there's nothing to care about their only. The, the voice-over performances are best mediocre and it was totally annoying which makes the characters even more unlikable, neither of the storylines, particularly interesting. Just take any story about the North Pole. Combine it with any motive Goebel story and throw in an unhealthy dose of sausage party. I need to have about ninety percent of what happens here. And, of course, the episodes of padded with point of schitt's just to make things even more tedious. The story does ramp up a little in the last few episodes, but you'll have chewed out by then. Trust me right down to its name Santa in Troy. Form a half a cynical deconstruction of Santa the North Pole and the myth or surrounding all of that. This Santa is a corrupt Volga piece of shit. The North Pole is run like a corporation. The rain did take meth to increase their speed and so on. It's supposedly a Christmas show, but it seems to think that it's somehow above and better than that genre because it's being critical and subversive of it. I don't come and help me get the impression that it's being a reference about Christmas just for the sake of it or was for the sake of grabbing attention. Please ignore his terrible execution. Nothing substantive valuable comes out of this deconstruction. It's like if you had sent to get drunk vomiting a stocking, pour it on himself and then running around on the floor. It snow falls. It doesn't say anything and anyone intelligent will just shrug and walk away. Speaking of execution, which is what the righteous deserve again. That's a joke, FBI. Leave me alone. I just want to quickly talk about the animated part of this adult animated comedy. I love stop motion and I'll give them at least some respect for at least trying to work in this medium and not a casual glance. It looks competent enough, but when you look at it closer, the floors, clearly emerge, a lot of the mouths of Photoshopped on in post, which I understand to some extent but it's moving mouse in one of the most difficult things to nail in stop motion. Unfortunately. It doesn't always look good, especially with candy. Her mouth looks too smooth and flat when compared to her face and it isn't just the mouse, some other objects that have Photoshop 10. Also look pretty bad. You can sometimes see parts of the green screen left over from when they chroma key that which is really not acceptable in a professionally produced show. They also frequently composite characters in Two Shots, rather than have the mortals be present in the sets themselves. I'm guessing this was a money or time saving measure, but to me, it doesn't feel been sick. So I have to knock off some points for that. You can also see the prepping around them and why the chroma key didn't always work. And this isn't like Robot Chicken where the animation was deliberately shit, but that was part of its charm. Sunset in case trying to cheat US, which is why I feel these floors of worth pointing out. So well, I will give some to Ink a small measure of respect for trying it. We're assessing objective quality in terms of the media. Receiving its own goals, then again, it's flat. But at this point, I care about as much as they did. Well, a good editor is hard to find, so I'm calling it a miracle. You work with that? I don't feel like there's much more to say. That wouldn't just be beating a dead horse. So did you conclude? Something has firmly established itself as the worst comedy show of the year, as well as being one of the worst I've ever seen, a lot of people giving this one star reviews because of stuff they objected to in the trailer but looking beyond that they still not good show her. This isn't some misunderstood Masterpiece, doesn't deserve to be rated as the worst TV show ever made. Know, off the top of my head. I can think of Tommy wiseau's The Neighbors on the nutshack that they both have ejected lie, worse than this. But it is pretty awful. You'd have to scrape the bottom of the barrel above the Russian underside of the barrel to find worse than this. It's not funny. It's not original. It's not well executed, and it's just crossed an irreverent without any redeeming value. So if someone's ever on your naughty list, don't give them a lump of coal. Give them this show on Blu-ray that already got your height for the frost. Get away to round out a truly awful. Yeah. They do say that the noise is darkest before the dawn. So perhaps this represents a low point before the start of great things. Here's hoping, I'm out. Thanks very much for watching, folks. Shout out to nordvpn for sponsoring. Once again, check them out. Support the channel Link in the description thing. So, so he's going to put his on patreon on YouTube channel, members 1st little as $1 a month, patrons and members get early access, the uncensored version 2 videos without a soul. Sponsorships is what does it mention hair in the credits? Check out my much storage. You find Sea, follow me on social media and public Discord server link. So Below. Thanks again, and I'll see you in the next one.
